Subject:Back charge Notification for Supply of HDG Bracing System
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed quotation referenced in (3) and LPO in (4) above, to inform you
that we have placed an order for the material on your behalf due to your failure to fulfill your
subcontract obligations in a timely manner.
We regret to inform you that your lack of co-ordination and your delay in execution of the works in the
aforesaid location ahead of the MEP Subcontractor in a timely manner, has resulted in the clash
between the AC duct and the Stone Steel Free Standing structure.
You are once again reminded to be conversant with the Subcontract clause 12.12.2 regarding the coordination with the Contractor and other Subcontractors.
We hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the cost associated with the works from your
account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims) and Clause 12.12
(Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors).
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
10.3.5 and 11.4, whereby you are liable to the Contractor for the costs arising out of your failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Delay Notice - Clear Laminated Glass at Duty Free Canopy & PPE sockets

Dear Sir,
With reference to above subject and in continuation to the above referenced correspondences (1&2),
regarding the BoQ Bill Item No 4 (Clear Laminated Glass to Duty Free Canopy GLZ-37) and Bill Item No 11
(PPE Sockets), this is to inform you that you have failed to proceed with the aforementioned works.
Consequently, due to the urgency of the works we have no other option than to proceed with taking all
necessary actions by deploying all necessary resources to complete the works on your behalf, which you
will be backcharged accordingly pursuant but not limited to Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and the
Clauses under 16.6 [Delay Damages].
In addition to the above, please be informed that Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct], states
that "If the Subcontractor fails to carry out any obligation under the Subcontract, the Contractor may by

notice require the Subcontractor to make good the failure and to remedy it within a specified
reasonable period."
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your information.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Notice to Correct - Clear Laminated Glass at Duty Free Canopy & PPE sockets

Dear Sir,
With reference to above subject and in continuation to the above referenced correspondences (1&2),
regarding the BoQ Bill Item No 4 (Clear Laminated Glass to Duty Free Canopy GLZ-37) and Bill Item No 11
(PPE Sockets), you are informed that the works must commence immediately.
Please be informed that Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct], states that "If the Subcontractor
fails to carry out any obligation under the Subcontract, the Contractor may by notice require the
Subcontractor to make good the failure and to remedy it within a specified reasonable period."
Therefore, you are instructed pursuant to Clause [11.3 Instructions of the Contractor] of the
Subcontract, to immediately proceed with the works within three (3) days of receipt of this letter, to
complete the aforementioned works.
Please be informed that in case no immediate action is taken, we will have no other option than to
deploy all necessary resources to complete the works on your behalf, which you will be backcharged
accordingly as per Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter referenced (1) and other numerous correspondences exchanged between us
in regards to delays and lack of work-fronts, we respond as follows.
We reiterate that we continue to be available at all times to ensure good communication for the smooth
progression of the works. We acknowledge the difficulties that all of the parties involved in a project of
this magnitude face, however, we trust that all can be resolved by taking appropriate actions.
There have been numerous correspondences exchanged regarding delays and lack of work fronts
between us and we would like to realistically point out some of the things that can ease the processes in
an effort to complete the works on time.
In light of the above, please note that good communication and coordination are crucial and should be
followed at all times for the avoidance of delays and similar unwanted future events. We acknowledge
the fact that in some areas such as CP level 2.0 and above, you are ahead of the targeted programme,
however, in some other areas you are not progressing and you are falling behind the programme. Our
aim is to assist you by all possible means to progress in all areas satisfactorily and ensure that the target
programme dates are met throughout the project. As mentioned above, this can only be done with your
cooperation and adequate communication which in some cases is not sufficient.
An example of lack of communication and coordination is the fact that for the last two weeks you have
demobilized 2 nr. screed pumps and a significant number of manpower from the site without prior
notification and it has significantly affected the progress of the works which are currently progressing
extremely slowly.
An experienced contractor of the extent of M/S Mosart working in this challenging project should have
anticipated some of the difficulties encountered in the project with respect to coordinating your works
and should have allowed flexibility in the programme by having in place mitigation strategies. Moreover,
the activities of other trades involved in the project and the complexities raised in regards to
coordination should have been taken into consideration and mitigation measures should have been
readily available. Therefore, we trust that you have the capacity to take all mitigation measures,
increase your resources to the required level and ensure that the works are progressing without delay
and are completed on time.
In view of the above and as per our previous numerous correspondences, you are instructed pursuant to
Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to provide an action plan and a labour histogram providing
mitigation measures to complete the open work-fronts. Also, you are requested, to coordinate your
works in a proper sequence by means of continuous communication with our construction team and
other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely completion of the works.

This is for your attention and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Subcontractor Time-Related Costs
Dear Sir,
We refer to the various submissions that you have made to us following our request for details of the
indirect time related costs that you allege you have incurred and/or forecast that you will incur in the
execution and completion of your Subcontract Works.
As noted in the related correspondence and workshops, our requests for such details followed the
direction given to us by the Engineer regarding the Subcontractors’ Cost element of our Main Contract
claim(s) for additional payment of Prolongation Cost as a result of critical delay to the Main Contract
Works. In this regard you will no doubt appreciate that whilst we have requested (and you have
provided us with) your alleged indirect time related costs over the period [date] to [date] , this period is
merely the period within which isolated days and/or periods of delay (culpable, excusable or
compensable) may occur and should not be construed as attaching liability to the Employer or to us
and/or any entitlement to you in respect of the extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion
and/or adjustment of the Subcontract Price. For the avoidance of any doubt, we do not consider the
cost submissions requested by us and subsequently provided by you as constituting claims made in
accordance with the Subcontract; indeed the Subcontract provisions regarding Subcontractor claims are
clear and your related obligations will not be waived and must be complied with fully for you to attain
any entitlement.
Notwithstanding the status of your submissions, we have reviewed the costs and related details that you
and all other subcontractors have provided to us with the objective of ensuring that the Subcontractors’
Cost element of our Main Contract Prolongation Cost claim(s) shall comprise solely of time related costs
that are fully supported with evidence that a cost has been or will be incurred. In this regard we have
prepared the enclosed General Comments and Specific Comments so that you may recognise the
deficiencies in your submission, which we hereby direct you (pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.9 of the
Conditions of Subcontract) to rectify.
Please note that this letter, the General Comments and Specific Comments concern the quantum (i.e.
cost) element of our Main Contract Prolongation Cost claim(s) relating to the extension of the Main
Contract Time for Completion that we claim was caused by events which under the Main Contract are at
the risk and responsibility of the Employer. Any stand-alone claim that you may elect to make under
your Subcontract should however also take cognisance of the enclosed comments and include all
supporting documents required in accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract, including but not
limited to:

(i)
a copy of the timely notices (Sub-Clause 27.1.1 and 27.1.3);
(ii)
contemporary records (Sub-Clause 27.1.4);
(iii)
the fully detailed claim with full supporting particulars (Sub-Clause 27.1.5); and
(iv)
a Time Impact Analysis “using a methodology acceptable to the Contractor [and] demonstrating
the effect and consequences of the events and periods of delay relied upon by the Subcontractor in its
claim” (Sub-Clause 27.2.1).
Suffice to say that your prompt and complete cooperation in this matter is to our mutual benefit and
that any extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion and additional payment to you of any
compensable delay shall be subject to you always having complied fully with all of your related
obligations under the Subcontract.
To the extent that any aspect of this letter and/or the enclosures (General Comments and Specific
Comments) is unclear to you, we would be pleased to meet with you and discuss your queries.
Yours faithfully,

1.

General Comments for Prolongation Costs
1.1. Cost
(a) An amount claimed as Cost must fall within the ambit of the definition of Cost that is set down in
Sub-Clause 1.1 of the General Conditions of Subcontract; this provides that Cost must be reasonably
incurred and excludes any profit, Disallowed Costs and expenditure incurred as a consequence of any
default on the part of the Subcontractor. Disallowed Costs is also defined in Sub-Clause 1.1 and
includes any costs arising out of or in connection with defects, certain sub-subcontractor cost etc.
(b) Cost must be actual and demonstrable expenditure incurred in order to place the claiming party
back in the same financial position it would otherwise have been in but for the circumstance(s) giving
rise to the claim. The claiming party is required to establish, as a matter of fact, that it has incurred
additional costs directly as a result of the matter(s) complained of. In this regard the following three
questions / limbs are relevant:
(i) To what extent are the amounts claimed attributable to the matters relied on? Would
the amounts claimed have been incurred in any event (albeit earlier or later than when
actually incurred)? Are the amounts claimed one-off (specific to a particular task); time
related (specific to a period of time); or volume related (specific to physical work)?
(ii) Have the costs claimed been incurred? Can the amounts claimed be traced back to the
accounting system for the project and payment evidenced?
(iii) Are the costs claimed reasonable? Could the expenditure incurred reasonably have been
avoided? Is there any duplication or excessive waste, was supervision, control etc. adequate?

Was the procurement process appropriate and the contract terms reasonable and have the
amounts claimed been calculated and paid in accordance with the appropriate terms of the
relevant contract?
(c) Where the factual information made available is insufficient to fully answer the three questions, it
cannot be established whether, as a matter of fact, the claiming party has incurred additional costs
directly as a result of the matter(s) complained of. It is for the Subcontractor to discharge the burden
of proof that a cost has been incurred or will be incurred, and that any such cost is a consequence of
the matters relied upon.
(d) Forecast cost is an estimate of Cost for a period of time in the future which may or may not be
incurred. Whilst useful for forecasting / budgeting purposes therefore, forecast cost cannot form part
of any assessment until such time as the Cost is actualised. Where the period of time has already
passed, Cost should be actualised and substantiated.
1.2. Resources
(a) Resources may be categorised as either ‘Time’ or ‘Activity’ (Task) related. Typically the
allowances for time-related resources are included in the initial Subcontract Price via the General
Items (Preliminaries) and allowances for activity-related resources are included in the unit rates for
work items.
(b) When the time for completion is extended, then it is only the time-related resources affected by the
extension that may be compensated via a Prolongation Cost Claim. This would ordinarily be the time
related resources that are generally required for the duration of the Project (‘Core’ resources) but may
also include time related resources attached to a particular location or element of the Subcontract
Works e.g. Pier 4 (‘Location’ resources) if the delay event impacts the critical path of the Works
related to the Location.
(c) By contrast, if activities are prolonged due to events impacting productivity, then the additional cost
of activity-related resources may be sought via a Disruption Claim. Activity-related resources may
not be included in a Prolongation Cost Claim.
(d) Whether or not a time-related resource is categorised as Core or Location is a matter of fact for which
evidence is required. In this regard, the consistency of resource presence over the Project is
informative. Costs incurred consistently are potentially time-related costs, while costs incurred in
isolated or discrete periods of time are more likely to be location and/or activity related.
(e) Resources attached to offsite facilities (generally either an office or a factory) are not ordinarily
claimable as time-related Core and instead are regarded as an overhead cost; a very rare exception to
this may be where it is evidenced that the offsite facility was established and is maintained and
operated solely for the Project.
1.3. Evidence
(a) Provide documents identifying the subcontractor and the Project, including:
(i) Agreements / Contracts (and any amendments thereto);
(ii) Delivery Tickets (Plant, Equipment, Vehicles, Fuel);
(iii) Signed Timesheets recording hours worked per day and tasks undertaken;
(iv) Consumption Reports (Fuel);

(v) Persons to whom the resource is provided (Transportation and Accommodation);
(vi) Invoices;
(vii) Accounting Records / Ledgers;
(viii)
Payslips (Staff);
(ix) Proof of Payment / Receipts / Bank Transaction Records;

1.4. Common Observations
(a) Resources that are most likely Location and/or Activity related (and hence ordinarily not directly
affected by events causing a delay to the critical path Works) are to be excluded from the Prolongation
Cost Claim e.g.
(i) Staff
a.
b.
c.

Labour, Foremen, Supervisors - principally Activity-related;
Engineering (Design & BIM) – principally Activity related
Site Engineers, Project Engineers, Procurement, QHSE - principally Location or
Activity-related.

(ii) Plant and Machinery (&Vehicles)
a. Tipper trucks / excavators / dumper trucks / wheel loaders / backhoe loaders / Mobile
Scaffold – principally Activity-related;
b. Cranage / Man lifts / Scissor lifts / Scaffolding - principally Location and/or Activity –
related’ and
c. Fuel (other than that consumed by Time-related resources)
d. Rates for owned PM&V to be supported by evidence of the actual purchase cost in
conjunction with the appropriate entry in the cost accounting system and the depreciation
policy.
(iii) Accommodation, Food & Transportation
a. Exclude that provided to Location and/or Activity-related personnel
(b) Bonds & Insurances
(i) Exclude insurances procured on a corporate rather than project specific basis;
(ii) The Cost of bonds and insurances is typically incurred annually and must accordingly be
distributed evenly over the relevant period.
(iii) Advance Payment Bonds: the bond repayment, amount of the bond and hence Cost is also
Activity related;
(c) Interest / Financing Costs
(i) Subcontractors to evidence their general or project specific financial arrangements, and how any
additional interest / financing costs have been incurred as a consequence of the prolongation.
Claims for interest / financing charges based on a theoretical calculation adopting a hypothetical
interest rate do not evidence any liability for a cost incurred and will not be accepted

(d) Head Office Overheads
(i) Any claim for "unabsorbed" overheads / loss of opportunity must evidence that resources were
prevented from earning a contribution to overheads from other projects (tendering opportunities
turned down or lost as a consequence of resources being retained on this project).
(ii) Any claim for "additional overheads" must identify the actual additional resources utilised or the
longer period that contemplated resources were dedicated to the project; also that the additional
resources / longer period of deployment was outside the reasonable contemplation of the
Subcontractor when the Subcontract was entered into and that the costs would not have been
incurred in any event.
(iii) In the absence of actual cost information, the use of an uplift percentage substantiated by audited
financial accounts may be appropriate.
(iv) The value of overheads claimed / recovered through variations and/or other claims to be credited.

Subject: Re: Communication Protocol
Dear Sir,
The Contractor responds to the Engineer's letter ref (1) as follows:
At the outset, the Contractor once again asserts that it has never encouraged nor condoned direct
communication from Subcontractors to the Employer and/or the Engineer. Therefore, the Contractor
has
instructed the Subcontractor, Guinault-Lebrun Aircraft Power Systems LLC (GL), to remove their
Operations Manager from the Site, due to his failure to comply with the Project's communication
protocol.
Furthermore, the Contractor is now able to comment on the content of GL's letter ref (4), as the
Engineer
has now provided the Contractor with a copy of the letter. In this instance it seems, from reading GL's
letter ref (4), that the Employer in a meeting held in September 2017, intimated that if GL faced any
major
issues in completing their works, GL should contact the Employer directly. The Engineer is aware that
the
Contractor and therefore its Subcontractors and suppliers are facing cash flow problems. Thus, GL has
directly written to the Employer advising the Employer of this major issue.
The Contractor's assertion that the receipt of GL's letter ref (5) was acceptable to the Employer and the
Engineer was based on the information available to the Contractor. Please be advised that the
Contractor
did not have a copy of the Employer' s letter ref (6) until the Engineer appended it to letter ref (1).
The Contractor's assertion that "there is a form of direct contract/agreement between the Employer and

GL ", is based on the warranty arrangement which is to form a collateral contract between the Employer
and GL.
We trust the above clarifies the matter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Submitted Likely Delay Notices Evidence of Compliance with the Contract PwrovisioRs
Dear Sir,
We understand, from recent discussions and meetings with the Employer and: the Engineer, that the
current position of the Engineer is that the Contractor's extension of time (f07!) claim for EOT 2 is "time
barred", albeit to date the Engineer has failed to issue a determination on the Contractor's claim despite
the requirements of Clause 27.1.8. The Engineer is reminded that we have issued successive claims for
EOT post Heads of Agreement during the past three years, which we most recently updated via
Consolidated Time Impact Analysis No. 9 (submitted under cover of our letter ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011969 dated 20 November 2017) (TIA ~o .9). The Engineer is extremely late in
rendering its determination with respect to the Contractor's claim, including providing its "detailed
comments" as required by Clause 27.1.6 of the Contract. The Engineer should have issued its
determination by 18 December 2017 for TIANo 9, which is still outstanding as of the date of this letter.
Given the significance of the Engineer's current position (which we have only recently been made aware
of), we are obliged to respond to correct the Engineer's stance.
(1) It is unclear what the Engineer means by time barred
As a threshold matter, it is unclear what the Engineer means by the Contractor's claim being "time
barred." In recent correspondence (e.g., refer~nce 3), the Engineer appears to confuse and conflate two
separate sets of contractual requirements.
As clearly indicated in the table above, the Contract specifies that only non-compliance with Clause 27
.1.1
" bars" a claim (provided that such bars are enforceable as a matter of UAE law, which they are not as
explained below). Otherwise, the Contract provides that the Contractor's claims are only limited (if at
all)
to the extent that the Employer can prove that the Contractor's failure "prevented or prejudiced proper
investigation of the claim."
Clause 16.5.2 does not change this. Clause 16.5.2 provides that:
"If the Contractor considers itself to be entitled to an extension of the Time for Completion,
the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer in accordance with clause 27.1 (Contractor's
Claims) and, if applicable, comply with the provisions set out in clause 27.2 (Time Impact
Analysis). Compliance with the notice requirements of clause 27.1 (Contractor's Claims) and
clause 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) shall be conditions precedent to the Contractor's
entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion. When determining each extension of
the Time for Completion under clause 27.1 (Contractor's Claims), the Engineer shall review
previous determinations and may increase, but not shall decrease, the total extension of the
Time for Completion."
The terms "notice requirements" and "condition precedent" are general, vague and undefined. In

contrast, clause 27.1.9 speaks precisely to this issue.
1 Accordingly, these terms are defined and limited by
clause 27.1.9. This interpretation is rendered unavoidable by the fact that clause 16.5.2 refers to the
requirements of clause 27.1, which includes clause 27.1.9. This means that clause 16.5.2 does not
supersede clause 27 .1.9, but rather, incorporates its requirements.
As such, clause 16.5.2 must mean that, other than non-compliance with clause 27.1.1, an extension of
time determination must consider any prevention or prejudice to the Employer resulting from the
Contractor's non-compliance with clauses 27.1 and 27.2. That means the requirements in clauses 27.1.5
and 27.2 are not "time bars". Any other reading would create an unavoidable conflict between two
provisions of the Contract. This is not the proper way to construe a legal instrument.
Construct1on ~~arabtec MIDFIELD TERMINAL CONTRACTOR
TCA Joint Venture
The Contractor notes that Clause 27.1.1 provides that the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer
whenever it becomes aware, or should become aware, of an event giving rise to a claim. The Contract
does not mandate that the notice be of any specific form other than meeting the requirements of Clause
9.4.1. This means that general correspondence, RFis and other forms of communication suffice?
Given the above, we assume that the Engineer's comment relates only to the Contractor's noncompliance
with Clause 27.1.1. If this assumption is not correct, then the Engineer's position is contradicted by the
plain terms of the Contract.
{2) Claims cannot be strictly time barred as a matter of UAE law
As the Engineer is well aware, the "Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the federal law of the United Arab Emirates as applied in the
Emirate
of Abu Dhabi."4 It is widely recognized that UAE law does not blindly permit the application of
contractual
time bars. To the contrary:
1. Prescription periods in the UAE law are mandatory provisions of law for which parties cannot
contract around;
2. The Employer cannot rely upon time bars where it has actual or constructive notice of the
event giving rise to the Contractor's claim; and
3. The Employer cannot rely upon time bars when it has not strictly complied with the Contract
itself or has impeded the Contractor's performance of its contractual obligations.
Appendix A elucidates these points at greater length. As is clear, the Engineer cannot invoke Clause 27
.1.1
to deny the Contractor's just claims as a matter of UAE law.
The Engineer is required to administer the Contract according to its terms. This includes the governing
law
clause. Thus, the Employer (via the Engineer's conduct) is in breach of the Contract if the Engineer fails
to
apply the Contract in the manner required by UAE law.
In light of (a) the Engineer's current position; and (b) its failure to provide an assessment, to date, of the

Contractor's EOT 2 claim, we would request the Engineer to consider the points elucidated in this letter
and respond accordingly.
Subject RFVO's - Extended Dates
Dear Sir,
The Engineer acknowledges receipt of the Contractor's RFVO's (1) and (2), however it is our position
that the Contractor does not have any entitlement for additional cost for these works under the
Variation Clause.
Should the Contractor believe it has an entitlement for additional cost then it is required to follow the
contractual process under Clause 27.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
Please withdraw these RFVO's accordingly.
Subject: Rejection of Subcontractor's As-Built Programme·- No11ti<Ce· orfi Del:a.y
Dear Sir,
Further to the numerous requests made to the Subcontractor for a schedule of forecast as-built
submissions,
the Contractor confirms that the Subcontractor submitted an as-built programme via email on• 30 April
2018.
The Contractor shares its concerns vis-a-vis this proposed programme and notes the following:
The submission dates proposed by the Subcontractor are neither cognisant of revision 10.4 of the
Programme nor of the milestones directed by the Contractor via· its letter reference (3). lio be clear, the
Subcontractor shall resubmit this as-built programme and shall take into c:onsideration each of the five
completion stages included in letter (3) when revising it.
The as-built programme submitted by the Subcontractor includes a number of drawings (both
mandatory
and elective) without a scheduled submission date. The Subcontrat:tor shall provide planned submission
dates for each and all as-built drawings. It is reiterated that these submission dates shall IDe cognisant
of
the completion stages advised via letter {3). ' '
In addition to the above, the Contractor notes that some as-built drawings (both mandato y and
elective)
have been marked by the Subcontractor as 'not required'. Please note that waiving the requirement for
the submission of an as-built drawing remains the right of the Employer only. Until such time as the
Employer advises the list of as-built drawings which are not required (if any), the Subcontractor shall
plan
for all of them and shall prepare its programme accordingly.
In view of the above, please be notified that, in the opinion of the Contractor, the performance of the
as-built
ji)reparation work is such that it may result in the Contractor not achieving its own obligations under the
Contract. Therefore, the Subcontractor is requested to take all reasonable steps to ensure completion of

these works in accordance with its contractual obligations under Sub-Clause 8.1.2 and Sub-Clause 16.1.1
of
the Conditions of Subcontract. The Subcontractor is therefore requested to revise and resubmit an asbuilt submission programme
forthwith, which shall be cognisant of revisions 10.4 of the Programme and the content of letter (3).
The Contractor's rights under the provisions of Sub-Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Sub-Clause
16.6
[Delay Damages] are hereby reserved.
Yours faithfully
Subject Internal Glazing Works Lack of Performance
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to our letter referenced (4) and your Monthly Report No. 67 for the period
ending March 2018 referenced (1), which includes the updated Programme to Completion as of 1 April
2018 and Target Programme Rev 10.4 (Clean-up as of 1 February 2018). The Engineer hereby raises
concerns over the lack of performance of AI Ghurair in the Central Processor, Piers, and all
Gate houses.
One of the main purposes that the Contractor was requested to introduce the Clean-up programme
(01 February 2018) was to align the forecast dates and t o mitigate the impact of delays for certain
trades. The Programme shows slippage to all type of works pertaining to the delivery and construction
(Refer to Attachment-1), such as but not limited to AI Ghurair's scope of works for Glazing (Glass
Screen, Glazing Pavilion, Glass Wall Lining), Toilet Compartment, and Utility Wall, as well as other
activities not included in the programme, such as the Light Box and the Equipment band.
The slow progress of AI Ghurair's scope of work has resulted in a negative impact on the programme,
since the Glass Screen works is on the second critical path for Pier 4. The Engineer raises its concern
that ongoing delays may not be recovered by the next monthly update as previously notified (5).
The Engineer records that, Abu Dhabi Civil Defense No Object Certificate (NOC) is planned to be issued
on 9 August 2018 for Pier 4 and all the work related to AI Ghurair has to be completed prior to the
start of the Civil Defense inspection process. This allows only 3 months from the date of t his letter yet
the relevant material has not yet been delivered to site.
We note that despite the issuance of Notices pursuant t o Clause 12.10.1 of the Conditions of Contract,
the Contractor has not adhered to its commitment that it will manage its Subcontractor as required
under the Contract, and that decisive actions have been taken to rectify its progress (ref.
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010779 dated 07 June 2017). Furthermore, we note that Assa Abloy which was
appointed in order to mitigate AI Ghurair's delays is also under performing.
The late delivery of material has negatively impacted the installation works by AI Ghurair (refer to
Attachement-2) and subsequently impacted the succeeding commissioning activities and the target
interim completion dates. The lack of progress has been discussed in the Weekly Progress Meetings
with the Contractor.
Accordingly, the Contractor is hereby requested to submit its Mitigation Plan detailing the measures
proposed to be adopted to mitigate the slippage that has occurred and to eliminate any knock-on

effect on the target completion dates. The Contractor shall include in its mitigation measures the
defective items such as survey, procurement, and installation.
The Mitigation Plan shall be submitted not later than one week from the date of receipt of this letter
and upon agreement with the Engineer, the Contractor shall incorporate the same in the next
programme update.
We remind the Contractor that it is solely responsible for all the delays incurred to date by its
Subcontractor's lack of performance and we hereby reserve the Employer's rights under t he Contract.
Subject:
Wall System

Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-to-

Dear Sir,
In continuation to our meetings regarding the above subject matter and our letter referenced (1) above,
we place on record that there has not been any official response to our mentioned letter and the matter
is still currently ongoing without a resolution. Therefore, to provide clarity on this matter, we have
summarised the main points of our letter referenced (1), in an effort to resolve this matter to enable us
to proceed with the works without delay. The detailed history of events has already been provided via
our letter reference (1), therefore we hereby provide a summary of the main points of our mentioned
letter.
It is noteworthy to reiterate that the responsibility for the Design of the works and consequently design
compliance with the codes and Local Authority requirements remains solely with the
Engineer/Employer. During the Tender we had limited information with respect to the type of the fire
rated ceilings and to date there is no Specification available for a 2 hour fire rated ceilings in the
Contract Documents.
During the Tender the Engineer via Tender Queries 12 Tender Bulletins 01 to 18, specified GYB-01
(regular non-fire rated gypsum board) to be used in egress passageways. Moreover, the Engineer stated
that “fire rated ceiling areas are defined in G-04 set” wherein there is no such information available in G04 drawings. The Engineer also stated that “rated ceilings at egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings
to be issued at a later date)”.
After the submission of BAFO, on May 2012 the Engineer issued the revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A
62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D_ dated 24 May 2012 inclusive of the detail (Detail No 8) for the required
properties of the Fire Rated Ceiling in the egress passageways. The drawing indicated GYB-04 gypsum
board which was in contradiction to the previous comments made on the Tender Bulletins, wherein you
specified GYB-01.
Kindly be informed that, as at the date of this letter, there is also a contradiction on the IFC drawings,
wherein IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 00 shows GYB-04 (fire resistant gypsum board)
but the legend of the current IFC ceiling plans (A-42 series) still shows the ceilings as GYB-01 which is a
regular non-fire rated gypsum board.

It is also noteworthy that via RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 dated 23 January 2018 we have
mutually agreed in principle on a Variation to include gypsum LID system, incorporating top and bottom
fire rated gypsum boards in various areas in the project.
Please note that the new the system provided by the Engineer (Detail no.8 in Drawing MTC_A-62 _B_L_
_ _ _ 00.640(00)), has no cross reference of this section in the IFC ceiling drawings. Additionally, after
investigating the matter we are of the opinion that the referred section cannot be considered a fire
rated ceiling system from both sides due to the fact that it has exposed framing structure in the ceiling
void which does not meet the Civil Defence Requirements. Furthermore, UAE Fire & Life Safety Code of
Practice item 35.2, does not permit a 'hanging system' for such a fire rated ceiling from top. In addition
to the above our opinion is based on the below facts:
i.
There is no certification available for a horizontal shaft wall system to be used as a rated ceiling
system;
ii.
This type of system is not available from any manufacturer in UAE;
iii.
The IFC configuration shows a hanging system with the fire direction from the bottom which is
not valid for fire direction from the top;
iv.
GYB-04 horizontal shaft wall ceiling system is shown in IFC drawings. This system is from USG
and listed in their brochure. USG website mentions that this system is not UL tested. This system
considers the fire direction from the corridor side and there are limitations to the width of the system.
In view of the above points you are kindly requested the following:
i.
Provide certification for the requested system to be used as a rated ceiling system;
ii.
Advise of a manufacturer in UAE that can provide the system requested;
iii.
Kindly advise on point (iv) above.
We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
and advise on the issues raised above and in our letter referenced (1) to avoid further delays.
At this juncture, we reserve all of our rights derived under the Contract and inform you that we will not
be held liable for any delays in regards to this matter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Rejection of Notice of Claim- Subcontractor's Failure to Adhere to Cl-257 MEP Opening on
GRC Scallop (ILS Bridge Zone 4)
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor rejects the notice of
claim issued by the Contractor in respect of the Subcontractor's failure to adhere to the Contractor's
Instruction Cl/0257 for the provision of an MEP opening in the GRC scallop in ILS Bridge Zone 4 (2). For
the
record:

In May 2017, the Contractor requested the Subcontractor to execute an opening in the GRC
scallop in Zone 4; the size and coordinates for this opening were provided to the Subcontractor.
In June 2017, the Subcontractor advised that a new panel had to be produced in order to carry
out an opening with these coordinates.
In July 2017, the Contractor issued an instruction (CI/0257) to the Subcontractor to proceed with
all necessary works required to finally obtain an opening in the GRC with the same size and in the
same location indicated previously. For ease of reference, the coordinates for the opening were
again included in the Contractor's instruction.
On 19 April 2018, the Subcontractor was notified that the works had not been carried out in
accordance with. the issued instruction. as the opening did not comply with the instructed
coordinates. The Subcontractor was further informed that its failure would impact the MEP
subcontractor (PCEJV) who was already working in the area.
On 01 May 2018, the Subcontractor was formally notified that PCEJV was incurring some abortive
I relocation works due to the Subcontractor's failure to adhere to the content of Cl/0257 and
execute the opening in the required location. Consequently, the Contractor notified the
Subcontractor that any additional costs would be recovered from its account, should PCEJV decide
to claim compensation vis-a-vis these abortive I relocation works. To be clear, it is because of the
Subcontractor failing to follow the Contractor's instructions that PCEJV
undertook abortive I relocation works. Hence, the Contractor does not concur with the Subcontractor's
statement that the notice issue via letter (2) is wrongful.
Moreover, the Contractor is of the opinion that the Subcontractor's rejection lacks any contractual basis.
Please be reminded that the submission of a notice only serves the purpose of informing the
Subcontractor of an event which may potentially result in a third party submitting a claim and in the
subsequent deduction of moneys due to the Subcontractor. It is a contractual obligation of the
Contractor
to notify the Subcontractor as soon as possible and, for the sake of clarity, the submission of such a
notice
cannot be rejected as it is not issued for the Subcontractor's approval.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Dissatisfaction with the Engineer's Determination (Clause 11.4) - load
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes in response to the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, whereby the Engineer
has
insisted that the Contractor shall proceed to give effect to the Engineer's determination and comply
with
Engineer's Instruction (EI) No.580, notwithstanding the Contractor's contention that the Engineer's
determination issued via the letter reference (3) is voidable.
In its letter reference (2) above, the Contractor has established its position that the Engineer's
determination issued via the letter reference (3) is voidable based on the grounds that: the
determination

is inappropriate; the determination creates an unavoidable conflict with the Contract; and the
determination does not comply with Clause 11.4 [Determinations]. Moreover, the Contractor has stated
that it would not be able to proceed with the varied works instructed under El No.580, until and unless
the Engineer has clarified the Contractor's concerns and issued an appropriate determination on the
disagreement related to El No.580. The Contractor notes that the Engineer neither has clarified the
concerns nor has issued an appropriate determination on the disagreement, except stating that "the
Contractor's assertion that the determination is inappropriate is rejected". However, the Engineer has
not
given any reasons as to why it was rejected.
The Contractor does not agree with the Engineer's assertion that "the Contractor has given no valid
reasons for rejecting an instruction of the Engineer" as the Contractor has not rejected the El No.580.
The ,
Contractor has only requested the Engineer, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) of the Conditions
of
Contract, to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised
Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of
Contract,
as the Contractor considers that El No.580 clearly constitutes a Variation. Since the Engineer has
continued to reject the Contractor's request for a Variation, the Contractor has requested the Engineer
to
make a fa ir determination on the disagreement, which is whether El No.580 constitutes a Va riation or
does not, in accordance with Sub-Clause 11.4.1 [Determinations) of the Conditions of Contract. As such,
the Contractor has been acting within the provisions of the Contract, thereby the Contractor rejects the
Engineer's statement that "we hereby reserve the Employer's rights for any delays which may occur as a
result of the Contractor's non-compliance". Contrariwise, the Contractor considers that the Engineer has
prevented the Contractor from implementing the varied works by not issuing an appropriate Engineer's
instruction and thereafter, not issuing an enforceable determination in timely manner. Please be
advised
that, the Contractor has first requested the Engineer to make a fair determination on this matter via its
letter dated 29 November 2016 (refer to Enclosure-2) Please be advised that, the Contractor has
forwarded the Engineer' s determination issued via the letter
reference (3) above to the Electrical Subcontractor. The Contractor encloses the Electrical
Subcontractor's
response reference (4), for the Engineer's information and records. The Electrical Subcontractor is of the
opinion that the implementation of the varied works instructed under El No.580 at this stage of the
Project would have detrimental impacts on the Project completion, w ith no added t echnical benefits to
the completed Project.
In light of the above, the Contractor reiterates that the Engineer's determination issued on 09 Ap ril
2018
is voidable and again requests the Engineer to issue an appropriate determination on the disagreement
related to El No. 580, which is whether El No.580 constitutes a Va riation or does not constitute a

Variation. If the Engineer's is on uncertain ground to determine that, the Contractor requests the
Engineer
to cancel El No.580, in the best interest of the Project.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Claim for RFI/0401/12251: Fire Rated Ceiling at Piers ll.O
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's response to RFI reference {1) above, please be advised that t he
information, comments, clarifications and/or instructions (the Instruction) contained therein, constitute
an instruction of a Variation.
The changes to the fire rated ceiling and the lighting layouts is a Variation to the Works. The changes to
the fire rated ceilings at Piers 1 to 4 at Ll.O have been initiated by the Engineer's responses to RFis
reference {6) and (7) above.
For this reason, the Contractor considers that the Engineer has issued an instruction constituting a
Variation, which is not in the form of, or which has not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by
way
of a formal Variation Order.
The Contractor has requested, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.4.(b) of the Conditions of Contract, the
Engineer to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised
Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a), via its letters reference {2)
to
{5) above. However, the Engineer has, as of the date of this letter, failed to provide the necessary
written
confirmation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification. Moreover,
the
Engineer has insisted, via its response to RFI reference {1), that the Contractor complies with the
Instruction with no additional cost and/or schedule impact, notwithstanding the Contractor's contention
that the Instruction constitutes a Variation.
The Engineer's insistence that the Contractor complies with the Instruction amid its refusal to issue a
formal Variation Order constitutes a breach of Sub-Clauses 11.1.1 [Engineer's Duties and Authority] and
20.1 [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract. Notwithstanding, unless and until the Contractor
receives an instruction from the Engineer otherwise, the Contractor will proceed to implement the
additional and/or varied works required by the Instruction. Nonetheless, the Contractor is only doing so
under duress and maintains all of its rights with respect to this Variation, whether existing under the
Contract or otherwise.
Subject: Notice of Delay – Delivery and Installation of Bollards at BAS68 at level 00
Dear Sir,
As per the attached emails referenced in both (2) and (3) above, we hereby put on record our concerns
over your failure to deliver all required materials for LBAS68 at level 00 by mid May 2018, which has also

resulted in the delay of installation. This is mainly due to the shortage of resources, poor planning and
inadequate coordination which is failure of your Subcontract obligations.
In light of the above, you are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 16.6.1 which provides that:
•
“If the Subcontractor fails to comply with the approved Subcontract Programme, the
Subcontractor shall without limitation indemnify and hold the Contractor harmless against and from the
costs, losses and expenses (...) incurred by the Contractor in connection with the Subcontractor’s delays
("Contractor Delay Costs"). Contractor Delay Costs incurred by the Contractor shall be quantified by the
Contractor at the time of such losses and claimed under clause 10.3 (Subcontractor's Claims). These
costs and losses shall be recoverable by the Contractor against the Subcontractor as compensation for
the losses suffered by the Contractor as a result of the Subcontractor's delay or non-compliance with the
approved Subcontract Programme and irrespective of whether or not the Subcontractor's delay or noncompliance results in the Contractor incurring liability for delay damages to the Employer under the
Contract."
Therefore you are hereby instructed to implement immediate mitigating measures within 7 days of
receipt of this letter. Failure to do so will result in us appointing a third party to execute the aforesaid
works on your behalf and back charge you in accordance with the Conditions of the Subcontract.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and will be recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Bonds and Insurances
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to the Subcontract Agreement referenced (1) above and with regards to the abovementioned
subject matter, you are kindly advised to be conversant on the following mandatory Subcontract
requirements:
Performance Bond
In accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract, Clause 12.2.1 (see enclosed), in the approved form
set out in Schedule 4 - Performance Bond, as stated on Annexure 1- Schedule 1 (Subcontract Particulars,
you are requested to submit a Performance Bond for our review and acceptance without delay to be
able to access the site.
Advance Payment Bond

In accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract, Clause 12.4.1 (see enclosed), in the approved form
set out in Schedule 5 - Advance Payment Bond, as stated on Annexure 1 - Schedule 1 (Subcontract
Particulars you are requested to submit an Advance Payment Bond for our review and acceptance as
soon as possible.
Insurances
In accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract, Clause 25.1.1 (see enclosed), all stated in Schedule 14
–Insurances and Appendix 'N' of the tender - Insurances to be Provided, you are requested to submit all
required Insurances for our review and approval without delay in order to commence with site works.
We kindly look forward to receiving all of the above documentation for our acceptance.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:

Poor Performance 16 – Internal Glazing Works Lack of Performance

Dear Sir,
We write in reference to the Engineer’s letter referenced in (5) above and the Monthly Report for the
period ending March 2018, which includes the updated Programme to Completion as of 1 April 2018 and
Target Programme Rev 10.4 (Clean-up as of 1 February 2018). We hereby raise our concerns over your
continuous lack of performance in the Central Processor, Piers, and all Gatehouses.
One of the main purposes that the Subcontractor was requested to introduce the Clean-up programme
(01 February 2018) was to align the forecast dates and to mitigate the impact of delays for certain
trades. The programme shows slippage to all works types pertaining to the delivery and construction,
such as but not limited to Glass Screens, Glazing Pavilion, Glass Wall Lining, Utility Wall, as well as other
activities not included in the programme such as the light boxes and the Equipment band.
The slow progress of your scope of works has resulted in a negative impact on the programme since the
Glass Screen works is on the second critical path for Pier 4. We raise our concern that the ongoing delays
may not be recovered by the next monthly update as previously notified.
It is also recorded that the Abu Dhabi Civil Defence No Objection Certificate (NOC) is planned to be
issued on 9 August 2018 for Pier 4 and all works related to Al Ghurair have to be completed prior to the
start of Civil Defence inspection process. This allows only 3 months from the date of this letter yet the
relevant materials have not yet been delivered to site.
Your late delivery of materials has negatively impacted the installation works and subsequently
impacted the succeeding commissioning activities and the target interim completion dates. The lack of

progress has been discussed in the Weekly Meetings and in addition, all have been recorded and
informed to you via numerous notifications including but not limited to “Poor Performance (1) to (15).
In light of the above, you are instructed to immediately take action and submit a mitigation plan no later
than 7 days from receipt of this letter (that includes measures like the defective items such as survey,
procurement and installation) for the recovery of the current delays and to complete all activities as per
the required and committed dates.
You are again reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other
Subcontractor/s arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your
account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Notice of Backcharge – Provision of Internet Access Facility on Site Offices Located in CP & Piers
Dear Sir,
We write with regards to the above subject for your attention.
In line with our support to the Subcontractors who have requested the provision of internet access
facility on site offices in order to enhance the communication while carrying out the works, we have
established the above facility since July 2015 and it has been utilised by your staff since then. In
addition, please be advised we work closely with the service provider and provided our supporting
staff/manpower resources to maintain this facility uninterrupted for all the users’ convenience from
time to time. Subsequently, we have incurred significant cost in stages for this facility as summarised
below for your information:
Stage 1. Initial Cost. Infrastructure/hardware set up (see attached).
Stage 2. Recurring Cost. Monthly rental, staff/manpower resources for running and maintenance cost
(see attached).
Stage 3. Removal Cost. Subsequent dismantling/removal cost of infrastructure etc. that expected to take
place during hand over period, cost information shall be available in due course.
At present, we note you have numerous users/employees on site as indicated on the enclosed list, we
intent to charge a monthly rate of AED 100/user from you and all the users from other Subcontractors
involved concurrently from the date this facility was utilised, until such time that abovementioned costs
are fully recovered. Meanwhile, you may refer to the attached information with regards to the initial

and recurring cost that we have incurred to date; the relevant detail breakdown shall be available upon
request. Please note the removal cost shall be available in due course.
We hereby notify you of our intention to backcharge the aforementioned cost from your interim
payments in accordance to Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clauses 10.3 (Contractor’s Claim), in
order to recover our cost/expenses plus our mark-up OHP% for the provision of this service. We shall
inform you the total cost in order to finalise the relevant portion of amount to be reimbursed from your
account in due course.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Delay – Completion of Hotel Building
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the aforesaid subject matter and hereby remind you that you must complete
all your associated works in the Hotel Building by 30th May 2018. However, as per the current Progress
Report you are highly unlikely to achieve the aforesaid completion date.
In light of the above, you are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 16.6.1 which provides that:
•
“If the Subcontractor fails to comply with the approved Subcontract Programme, the
Subcontractor shall without limitation indemnify and hold the Contractor harmless against and from the
costs, losses and expenses (...) incurred by the Contractor in connection with the Subcontractor’s delays
("Contractor Delay Costs"). Contractor Delay Costs incurred by the Contractor shall be quantified by the
Contractor at the time of such losses and claimed under clause 10.3 (Subcontractor's Claims). These
costs and losses shall be recoverable by the Contractor against the Subcontractor as compensation for
the losses suffered by the Contractor as a result of the Subcontractor's delay or non-compliance with the
approved Subcontract Programme and irrespective of whether or not the Subcontractor's delay or noncompliance results in the Contractor incurring liability for delay damages to the Employer under the
Contract."
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Notifications of Claim received prior to 5th March 2014

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of the Notifications issued by the Contractor, identified within the attached list.
Whilst it may not be required for the Engineer to provide a response to the Contractor's Notification of
Claims, we wish to advise, for the purposes of clarity, that we understand, all the attached listed
Notifications form part of;
1} "The Heads of Agreement for Resolution of Contractor Claims dated 5th March 2015";
2} "Amendment Agreement No. 3 dated 19th March 2015".
Accordingly, these notifications will be resolved and finalized in accordance with the above Agreements.
We trust the foregoing is clear and clarifies the Engineer's understanding in this regard.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request for Damage Report on Pit Mechanism of Gate house 10
Dear Sir,
Further to your email dated 04 May 2018 with regards to the above subject, we would express our
concerns pertaining to the installed pit mechanism on Gatehouse 10 that has been reported as damaged
due to heavy truck passing through the above pit as reported in your email (see enclosed).
You are hereby instructed to provide a detail report with sufficient information for our review, which
shall include but not limited to, how the incident happened, the parties involved, any protection that
have been provided by you, etc and, your proposed preventive methodology to this Gatehouse 10, and
other affected gatehouses in order to prevent recurrence of such incident in future. Subsequently, we
expect you to provide the detail recovery programme which shall clearly establish how you intend to
recover the delays due to this incident in accordance to Clause 16.4 (Recovery of Delays).
We trust you will furnish us with the requested report as a matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Request for Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) for
RFI/0401/15178- Pavilion Wash Rooms- Wash Basin
Cross Ref. (1) MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/012157 dated 28 December 2017
Dear Sir,
You will be aware that the washroom design was amended as part of Briefing Pack 13 and for which
workshops were held for each washroom. The Contractor issued sketches for each workshop
incorporating comments provided by the Design Consultant and following sign-off these became the
Neutral Documents on which the shop drawings were based.
We find that the shop drawings of partition layouts to all the identified washrooms required the
Contractor to coordinate partition setting out with BP13 and resubmit, however no resubmittal has
been
received and site works were undertaken by the Contractor at his risk.
As stated in your letter (1) above the Contractor proposed through RFI-15178 to install smaller wash
basins to overcome the problem of doors touching the basin when open and this solution was accepted

by the Engineer so as not to disrupt site progress. We confirm that no Variation Order is required as this
change to wash basin size would not have been necessary if the Contractor had undertaken the required
coordination and resubmitted the shop drawings accordingly.
Also, it should be noted that the setting out of washroom doors to a number of pavilion washrooms (20P18, P19, P24, P25, P26 & P43) was amended under RFI/0401/ 7454 to prevent the doors clashing with
the wash basins.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Contractor Claim: Compensation for the Employer's breach of Contract Specification
Section 013115)
Dear Sir,
The Contractor responds to Engineer's letter ref (1) and (2) as follows:
The Engineer has fundamentally misinterpreted and mischaracterised the Contractor's claim.
First, the Engineer in letter (2) states that "The RFVO provides no clear contractual reference to the
claimed entitlement and is consequently rejected by the Engineer." We understand this to mean that
the
Engineer believes that the Contractor has not stated a contractual breach. This statement is entirely
incorrect and rejected by the Contractor. The Contractor has stated in letter (3) that it relies upon
Paragraph 1.5 C of Specification Section no 013155 [Coordination with Tenant Areas] for its claim of
breach of Contract, with Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013155 clearly quoted in Contractor
letter reference (3). This reflects the Engineer's lack of attention to the Contractor's claim.
The Engineer has stated in letter (1) that "Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013115 does not place
any obligation on the Employer to ensure that Tenant Contractors employ for their fit out works the
Contractor's Subcontractor". This is a clear misinterpretation, by the Engineer, of Paragraph 1.5C of
Specification Section 013115. As the Contractor's letter reference (3) makes clear, Specification Section
013115 Paragraph 1.5C obligates the Tenant Contractors to use the "Contractor's major
subcontractors."
For ease of reference, Article 1.5(C) is reproduced below:
"To keep continuity within the MTB Construction Phase, the Tenant Contractors
shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including but not limited to; all
Systems (IT, PA, Security and etc.}, Electrical, Plumbing, HVAC, and Waterproofing
as based on unit rates (rom the BOQ. These various subcontractors shall be directly
contracted to the respective Tenant Contractors" (emphasis added).
The word "shall" connotes a mandatory condition. Instead of doing what was promised to the
Contractor
(and its Subcontractors), the Tenant Contractors went around Anel, a major MEP Subcontractor, and
employed a different contractor. By signing the Contract, the Employer undertook the legal obligation
for
the Tenant Contractors to use Anel. The failure of the Tenant Contractors to use Anel thus constitutes
the
Employer's breach of the Contract entitling the Subcontractor to damages. Furthermore, if there was no

obligation placed on the Tenant Contractors to use the Contractor's major Subcontractor, then there
would have been no need for Specification Section No 013115 to refer to how these additional works
would be valued (i.e. based on unit rates from the BOQ).
Next, the Engineer asserts in letter (1) that '7he electrical works that the Contractor alleged to have
been
omitted from the Contract are not part of the Works under the Contract. Therefore, there cannot be any
omission and loss of profit and overheads." As noted above, this is not an "omission" of works, but
rather
a breach of an express obligation to employ the major Subcontractors. Under UAE Law, a party claiming
for breach of contract is entitled to all damages naturally flowing from the breach.1 In this case, had the
Tenant Contractors properly employed Anel, Anel would have been paid the BOQ rates for the works
done. Its profit would have been the price paid by the Tenant Contractors minus its costs for doing the
work. The Contractor in letter reference (3) has provided detailed calculations of the amount claimed as
damages.
Based upon the above, the Contractor request that the Engineer considers its claim properly, employing
the impartialit/ required by the Contract. We also trust that steps will be taken to avoid further breaches
of this provision.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Elevator Clear Laminated Glass Type GLZ-31
Dear Sir,
We hereby write further to your response to our above referenced submission for additional costs due
to
the Engineer implementing a change of glazing type via its letter dated 09 April 2015.
In light of your rejection to our petition for additional costs, we take the opportunity to correct a
number
of incorrect statements made in your response dated 02 May 2018.
The original IFC Glazing Specification indicates forty-three typ.es of glass to be used on the project of
which
fourteen are described as clear laminated glass. It is therefore preposterous to suggest that the
Contractor
should assume the use of glass type GLZ-31 for all elevator glazing. The description of GLZ-31 within the
Glazing Specification gives no indication that it is to be used as standard within the glass elevators.
Likewise the Elevator Specification makes no indication that GLZ-31 shall be used.
Therefore, we record our disagreement with your rejection of our ROM 1780.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Room Completion Stage-1, Zutec Update
Dear Sir,
We write further to the Engineer's letter referenced (1) above with regards to updating the backlog of

the Room Completion in Zutec in order to be aligned with the physical room completion update
provided by the Contractor's construction team.
On 28 March 2018, during the Weekly Meeting as referenced in {2), item 7 has recorded "TCAJV
mentioned that Zutec update will be 1st week of April".
The Contractor has failed to meet the above mentioned committed date as well as numerous other
committed dates provided by the Contractor in various meetings. The most recent given on 11 April
2018, during the weekly meeting referenced (3), Item 6, has recorded "Zutec update is missed and
TCAJV
is forecasting end of April to complete this task, CMA/ADAC says this not acceptable and TCAJV to exert
effort to close this task" .
The Engineer hereby records that as of 27 April 2018, as per the weekly update referenced (4), the
Contractor has failed to complete the backlog update of Zutec, as demonstrated in the table below
whereby the completed rooms according to Zutec is 291 vs. 2,134 claimed by the TCAJV. The Engineer
notifies the Contractor that the delay in updating the backlog in Zutec will prevent the
ongoing efforts to mitigate delays by the Contractor.
The Contractor shall be fully responsible for any delays that may occur as a result of the above.
Finally, the Contractor is requested to submit the action plan for Zutec backlog update not later than 3
days from the receipt of this letter.
Subject:

Re: CTBA Workers & Activities

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (1) and we hereby inform of our disagreement with regards to
your statement that the installation works for Hardware and bracketing done by M/S CTBA cannot be
certified by you, due to the fact that the team of M/S CTBA has not been trained by you.
For ease of reference we remind you of our numerous notifications and correspondences regarding your
lack of manpower, notices to correct and delay notices wherein to date you have failed to comply and
rectify respectively. We put on record that you have not rectified the aforementioned or complied with
our Instructions, but you have also further reduced your manpower on site which is affecting the
progress of the works (see attached Subcontractor’s Daily Manpower & Activity Report).
In view of the above, we have proceeded with deploying all necessary resources i.e. M/S CTBA which
will be backcharged to you, to avoid any further delays to the project. We also put on record that
currently the only progress on site is by M/S CTBA, which is following our instructions and progressing
with the works on site accordingly.
Additionally, we also put on record that the quality of your work by using unskilled labour is
unacceptable. Furthermore, please note that your installers have not been certified as required by the
Contract. Your attention is drawn to the Contract Specification Section 087100 Paragraph 1.5 [Quality
Assurance] which states the following:

“A. Installer Qualifications: Supplier of products and an employer of workers trained and approved by
product manufacturers and an Architectural Hardware Consultant […]”; and
“B. Architectural Hardware Consultant Qualifications: A person who is experienced in providing
consulting services for door hardware installations that are comparable in material, design, and extent
to that specified for this Project and who is currently certified by DHI […]”.
Hence it is with great surprise and disappointment to find that you have chosen to enter into
correspondence on this matter. To be more specific your assertions that M/S CTBA’s personnel has not
been trained by you and your allegations that are not competent to perform the works, while your
installers have not been certified as required by the Contract is noted.
In light of the foregoing, you are requested to withdraw your letter referenced (1) above. In the
meantime you are instructed to increase your manpower, provide materials Fabrication Report, Delivery
schedule immediately as previously requested. We are concerned with the delivery status of materials
to the site hence we need to see a substantial delivery and improvements going forward and
coordination of your works accordingly, to ensure the timely completion of the works.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Processor Swing Arm Test- Request for Information RFI/0401/15440
Cross Ref. (1) MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/012640 dated 19 March 2018
Dear Sir,
We refer to your correspondence referenced as (1) above regarding Processor Swing Arm Test- Request
for Information RFI/0401/15440.
The Contractor stated that the response to RFI/0401/15440 provided by the design team did not fully
address the question raised. The response to the RFI refers the Contractor back to a response given for
RFI/0401/4616. Both RFI's raised a question regarding the testing of the Schaeffler Spherical bearings as
required by the project specification. RFI/0401/4616 raised the query regarding the bearings specified
under the main processor arches and RFI/0401/15440 raised a similar question regarding the Processor
Arrivals Fac;ade.
In RFI/0401/15440 the Contractor stated that the bearing cannot be tested as the test load is too great
for the equipment that the various testing laboratories have available. An identical question was raised
in RFI/0401/4616. This response was accepted by the Contractor without the ne·ed for additional
clarification as is now requested.
In fact, the bearing test information requested by the design team as part of the response to
RFI/0401/4616 was provided to the design team under reference MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011910, dated
23rd November 2017. This information was accepted by the design team as sufficient to address the
comments raised in RFI/0401/4616.
It is therefore unclear how the same response to two identical questions can in one instance be
accepted by the Contractor and in another instance not.

The Contractor's proposal in RFI/0401/15440 to request for "reduced design loads" presents more delay
to the project as it is not certain the design loads are significantly less than the current test loads nor is it
certain the laboratories will have the equipment to test for these "reduced loads". The Contractor
should provide evidence from the manufacturer that the following have been carried out
for the bearing types listed in RFI/0401/15440:
• Prototype tests, to verify the adequacy of the design. These tests are generally ca rried out by the
manufacturer during the development of the bearing.
• Production tests, to ensure the use of correct materials and procedures in manufacture.
This is the same type of information the Contractor has already supplied in response to RFI/0401/4616.
In light of the above we now consider this matter closed
Subject:Mosart’s EOT (Additional Cost) Claim
Dear Sir/Madam,
Further to your various submissions of cost that you assert to be time-related and arising solely from the
prolongation of the time over which the Subcontract Works are executed and to our related meeting on
14th May 2018, we note the following.
We reiterate that you are required to resubmit your Prolongation Costs in the form of a Claim in
compliance with all of your related obligations under the Subcontract, including Clauses 16.5 [Extension
of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of
the General Conditions.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing any additional Cost incurred, we require you to provide
with your claim the full details of the Staff that you would have deployed in executing and completing
your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline programme. Also, the Staff you
considered necessary to execute and complete your Subcontract Works in accordance with the Rev. 6.2
Programme. The details are to include resource names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates.
You should also categorise the resources into “Core” (deployed across the entire works), “Location”
(deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to supervise
specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding).
Additionally, our initial review of your submitted costs is that some of the amounts claimed are not
related to prolongation. In this regard, our main observations are as follows:
1.
Flights and entertainment expenses are included in office consumables which we do not
consider to have been incurred as a consequence of prolongation;
2.
Significant amounts are claimed for the wages of production staff and direct labour and the
related labour camp and transportation, all of which, we consider as task (not time) related;
3.
Significant amounts are claimed for factory rent and depreciation of factory assets, which we
consider part of the subcontractor’s Overhead cost;

4.
There is no evidence of any liability for a cost incurred for the financing charges / extended
retention which it seems was based on a theoretical calculation and a hypothetical interest rate. You
must evidence your general or project specific financial arrangements, and how any additional interest /
financing costs have been incurred as a consequence of the prolongation for any such costs to be
considered.
In regards to the cost of Overheads (which accounts for an excessive and disproportionate amount of
your submitted cost) we note the following:
i.
Emden Formula does not evidence actual cost incurred; to claim "unabsorbed" Overheads you
must evidence that resources were prevented from earning a contribution to Overheads from specific
lost opportunities;
ii.
Offsite facilities (factory & storage) are not ordinarily claimable as core time-related and instead
are either activity related e.g. production of materials for incorporation into the Subcontract Works
and/or regarded as being included in the corporate overhead (utilised for all projects / not project
specific);
iii.
Overhead recovered via the valuation of the works and variations executed in the prolongation
period must be credited.
We look forward to our receipt of the information requested and assure you that it remains our
objective and intention to fairly determine any additional Cost to which you may be entitled arising from
the Delay Events upon which your claim for an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion and
compensable delay is based. In the interim, the continuation and progress of your Subcontract Works to
meet the requisite schedule will no doubt be viewed favourably and recognised as a demonstration of
your continued commitment to the Project.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Minutes of Meeting – Commercial Meeting 14th May 2018
Dear Sir,
Please find enclosed the minutes of meeting from the Commercial meeting held on 14th May 2018,
related to the commercial issues. Please note that the main topics of discussion of the mentioned
meeting were as follows:
•
•
•
•
•

Domestic and Employer Variations Payments;
Mosart’s EOT Claims and Prolongation Cost Submissions;
Amendment Agreement;
Mosart’s Request for Payment on account and Financial Condition; and
JV’s concern on outstanding payment to Mosart’s subcontractor Plus Paint.

In view of the above and further to the receipt of your letters referenced (1 – 3) above, please note that
during the meeting we have discussed and covered the contents of your mentioned letters.

This is for your information, records and necessary actions.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Gatehouses Lack of Closure Clearance

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (1) above, regarding your statements for the lack of work
fronts for Ceiling/ Wall cladding closure at the Gatehouses and we hereby respond as follows:
Your CommentsOur Response
In addition to the above, please be informed that there are enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed but you are failing to do so. The available work-front areas include but not limited to the
following:
•
Gatehouse 08 L2.0 ceiling – Framing installation has not started yet. You have been advised to
proceed since 16th May 2018;
•
Gatehouse 07 L2.0 ceiling – Framing installation has not started yet. You have been advised to
proceed since 16th May 2018;
•
At the entrance to hold room all areas in Gatehouses in Pier 1 framing for the bulk head and
corner cladding work has to start as soon as possible. We put on record that only GH 48 & 49 have been
completed out of 6 Gatehouses;
•
At the entrance to hold room all areas in Gatehouses in Pier 1 framing for the bulk head and
corner cladding work has to start as soon as possible. We put on record that only GH 7, 8, 9, 10 steel
post have been completed out of 16 Gatehouses.
We once again reiterate, as stated in numerous correspondences, that we remain increasingly
concerned regarding your delays, lack of progress and lack of manpower at site, which has not improved
despite our recurrent instructions to proceed with the works without any delay. The aforementioned
delays can be mitigated by using adequate resources, increasing your manpower and proceeding to
work at the available work-fronts.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Reply - Notification of Damages to Installed Buggy Rail and Trolley Rail in CP-01 Level 2.0 & 3.0
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (3) above regarding the subject matter.
We have observed that you failed to specifically identify the party who damaged your purported
completed works. However as per your evidence provided, it clearly indicates that the works were
inadequately protected or even not protected at all.

In light of the above, you are hereby reminded of your obligation under the Subcontract to protect your
works until such a time as ownership of the same transfers to the Employer upon TOC and below are the
applicable relevant clauses;
•
Clause 15.6.2 - 'the Subcontractor shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping
and protection of each part of the Subcontract Works until such time as the Contractor issues the Taking
over Certificate at Substantial Completion.
Additionally, the provisions of clause 24.2 (Subcontractor's Care of the Subcontract Works) shall apply;
•
Clause 24.2.1 - ‘Schedule 22 (General Requirements and Attendances), the Subcontractor shall
take full responsibility for the care of the Subcontract Works and Goods from the Commencement Date
until the Taking over Certificate in respect of Substantial Completion is issued, when responsibility for
the care of the whole of the Subcontract Works shall pass to the Contractor.... '
•
Clause 24.2.2 - 'Subcontractor is responsible for their care, from any cause not listed in clause
24.3 (Contractor's Risks), the Subcontractor shall rectify the loss or damage at the Subcontractor's risk
and cost. So that the Subcontract Works, Goods and Subcontractor's Documents conform with the
Subcontract.... '
In case you wish to pursue a claim against another Subcontractor, the onus is on you to provide correct
particulars in the form of substantiation/ evidence of the damage for our assessment and to inform the
parties involved accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
GUIDE-LINES
SUBCONTRACTORS SUBMISSIONS OF COSTS FOR PROLONGATION, DISRUPTION, SPECIAL MEASURES
AND SUCH LIKE
Guidelines on Information Required for Cost Substantiation
Prolongation and Disruption Costs
The following sets out the minimal requirements for cost substantiation documents from TCA-JV’s
Subcontractors, where further audits are to be carried out.
The Subcontractors need to provide, as a minimum, the following:
1.
Cost substantiation should be presented in a proper structure with supporting narrative and
appendices which reflects the ‘cost sections/headings’ listed on the Subcontractors’ overall cost

summary sheet (excel copy - cost spread monthly), where cost substantiation is provided on a month by
month basis.
2.
The Subcontractor must provide the details of costs by reference to the resources deployed and
invoices etc., to substantiate the actual costs of time related costs, i.e. prolongation costs.
3.
Detailed calculations for the additional costs must be provided in a spreadsheet format. Such
spreadsheets should be consistent with the narrative in terms of titles and column headings (sample
provided).
4.
Invoices should be individually referenced and cross-referenced back to secondary summary
sheets which then correlates to the overall cost summary sheet, so that the reviewer may easily verify
and track all costs.
5. Tender and actual project organization charts.
6. Proof of Subcontractor monthly reporting on claims and EoT’s (Extension of Time) related issues.
7. Proof of Subcontractors monthly reporting on delay and disruption mitigation measures undertaken.
8. Staff salary certificates should be provided for all staff claimed over the prolonged period, supported
by timesheets and proof of site presence.
9. Other staff and management supporting documents should include, but not be limited to the
following:
•
design, engineering and consultancy invoices
•
salary certificates, timesheets, site clock-in records, site badges/ID’s
•
purchase orders and quotations
•
health insurance, visa costs, invoices
•
employee tenancy agreements
•
employee car rental agreements
•
employee general expenses
10.
Plant, equipment and tools provided on site are to be supported by timesheets and proof of site
presence. Other plant, equipment and machinery and site running costs supporting documents should
include, but not be limited to the following:
•
•
•
•
•

plant, equipment and machinery invoices
scaffolding services agreements & invoices (labour hire)
site running costs & invoices (back-charges listed separately)
site delivery notes
site office IT, furniture and office equipment invoices

•
safety and HSE equipment invoices
•
survey services agreements & invoices
•
diesel consumption reports which should match with equipment, plant & machinery lists
•
services, plant, equipment provided by TCA-JV should be listed separately
•
plant, machinery and equipment deprecation should be substantiated on a monthly basis
separately (if not included in Company Overheads)
11.
Additional costs in relation to Employer variation orders or instructed varied works cannot be
included in EoT cost submissions and these need to be allocated and dealt with separately under TCAJV’s V/O Department. Any ‘duplication’ of costs in relation to EoT and V/O cost submissions will be
deducted accordingly. It will be each Subcontractor’s obligation to demonstrate that duplication of costs
(EoT & Variations) has not occurred in this respect.
12.
Disruption costs (if any) related to ‘site labour disruption’ is required to be properly
substantiated in accordance with the ‘Measured Mile’ approach, if deemed appropriate or similar
justifiable means. These costs are not to be based on a theoretical calculation basis only. These costs
require full substantiation of actual costs incurred with clear and supported records and documents.
Disruption costs require further detailed substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when
and how sections of the Subcontract Works were actually disrupted, and by which party.
13.
Acceleration costs (if any) is required to be properly substantiated. These costs are not to be
based on a theoretical calculation only. These costs require full substantiation of actual costs incurred
with clear and supported records and documents. Acceleration costs require further detailed
substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when and how sections of the Subcontract
Works were actually accelerated and how these measures have achieved their respective accelerated
targets. Details of the formal instruction to accelerate which the Subcontractor should have received
from TCA-JV or the Engineer/Employer should also be provided.
14.
Subcontractor’s Overhead costs is required to be properly substantiated, where auditable
financial company reports can be provided for the previous 4 years to demonstrate the Subcontractor’s
Overheads on a yearly % basis. Emden’s or Hudson’s Formulae are not to be used. An average %
overhead calculation is to be shown (per year) for any year provided, which should not include Profit.
Profit is excluded for EoT cost submission purposes. The overhead should be expressed as % for each
year provided with the supporting company financial audit reports to demonstrate how that % was
calculated for that given year. Alternatively, actual Company Overheads can be provided and
substantiated for the project as a whole.
15.
Subcontractors cost documentation, substantiation and supporting files are to be provided on
disc, in a structured manner which can be followed. PDF and Excel copies (cost calculation sheets) of all
documents are to be clear and readable, copies which are unreadable or poorly scanned will be
returned in full. Language needs to be in English (for all documents) and any translation required will be
the Subcontractor’s responsibility to provide.

16.
Subcontractors are required to submit all substantiation of prolongation costs in a monthly
breakdown format. Invoices and back up data needs to be allocated clearly to the month where the
costs are actually incurred. This will identify the actual costs incurred in each respective month.
17.
All summary, primary and secondary calculation sheets (cost summary sheets) are to be
provided in both PDF and Excel formats.
18.
All cost substantiation and supporting documentation is to be referred to and related to the Abu
Dhabi Airport Project in some form, which clearly identifies that the cost data provided is related solely
for the purpose of this project only.
Conclusion:Subcontractors cost substantiation is to be provided in a ‘structured format’ and in a ‘properly organized
manner’ professionally and clearly presented and easy to follow which reflects the sections and cost
headings in the overall cost summary sheet (sample provided).
This will enable TCA-JV and the Engineer’s Auditors to follow the costs in a constructive and organized
manner. It is also imperative that every Subcontractor carries out its’ own ‘internal audits’ of its’ cost
substantiation prior to submission.
Important Notices:TCA-JV and the Engineer shall review the full submission upon receipt of a complete file with the
required level of substantiation. Therefore, TCA-JV urges the Subcontractors to expedite its efforts and
provide full details, cost substantiation and documents in line with the requirements set out.
Subject:

Cloisall EOT (Additional Cost) Claim

Dear Sir,
During our meeting this morning we conveyed to you our view that your entitlement to any
compensation arising from Employer and/or Contractor Culpable Delay Events is to the additional Cost
incurred i.e. Cost that you would not have incurred ‘but for’ the occurrence of the Delay Events.
In this regard, we noted that your claim for compensation comprises all prolongation costs incurred by
you after the expiration of the original Time for Completion (TFC) / original Completion Date of 25
February 2016. Moreover, that the total time-related cost incurred by you from the original
Commencement Date (07 Aug 2014) to the Completion Date to which you seek an EOT (19 March 2018)
is approximately AED 109m (excluding overhead) of which you claim AED 82m as additional. This being
the case, then it would seem that the difference (AED 27m) is what you assert to be the time-related
cost that you would have incurred in executing and completing your Subcontract Works over the original
TFC (07 Aug 2014 to 25 Feb 2016 / 568 days) plus the BIM 500 Overrun Period (26 Feb 2016 to 11 May
2016 / 76 days) that you scheduled in the approved programme as being completed outside of the TFC.

We do not accept that AED 27m was sufficient as the cost of the time-related resources necessary to
execute and complete your Subcontract Works over the originally programmed period i.e. 07 Aug 2014
to 11 May 2016 / 644 days. Indeed, we have noted that the Preliminaries element of your Subcontract
Price is AED 114m and consider this to support our view that if there had been no changes to the
sequence and durations set down in the approved baseline programme, then your time-related costs
would have been significantly in excess of AED 27m and hence your additional Cost significantly less
than 82m.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you the additional Cost incurred therefore, we
require you to provide us with the full details of the Staff resources that you would have deployed in
executing and completing your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline
programme. Also, the Staff resources you considered necessary to execute and complete your
Subcontract Works in accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme. The details are to include resource
names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates. You should also categorise the resources into
“Core” (deployed across the entire works), “Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular
locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding).
We also require you to similarly categorise the Staff, into “Core” (deployed across the entire works),
“Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to
supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding), that you have identified in June 2016 (AED 1,643,637),
September 2016 (AED 1,983,908) and June 2017 (AED 2,048,889).
Regarding the Staff Costs, we also noted in our meeting that we had observed from a brief review of the
payslips provided to us via your letter reference 11453 dated 17 December 2017, that accommodation
costs were not abated for Staff deployed for only part of the month; also, that lump sum additional
costs, such as flight tickets, are costed in the month in which they are paid and not across the entire
period over which the entitlement to the additional cost was accrued. This must be addressed in the
periods over which compensable delay is ascertained.
We look forward to our receipt of the information requested and assure you that it remains our
objective and intention to fairly determine any additional Cost to which you may be entitled arising from
Delay Events. In the interim, the continuation and progress of your Subcontract Works to meet the
requisite schedule will no doubt be viewed favourably and recognised as a demonstration of your
commitment to the Project.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Re: Prolongation Cost

We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced (1) above wherein you have requested the status of
your prolongation costs submissions. As discussed previously via email correspondences, we reiterate
that our determination of your prolongation costs submissions and the Extension of Subcontract Time
for Completion is subject to the Engineer’s determination. We assure you that we are pursuing an
expeditious response from the Engineer for this matter pursuant to Clause 11.4 [Determinations].
Moreover, after our review of your submissions, you are advised to resubmit your monthly prolongation
costs in the form of a Claim in line with the relevant Clauses of the Subcontract Agreement, taking into
consideration the comments described herein. In order to assist us in establishing your entitlement, you
are required to submit a Claim in line with the following:
1.
Submit a detailed Time Impact Analysis pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] for each
delay event;
2.
Resubmit your monthly prolongation costs in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract
Time for Completion] and 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims];
3.
Ensure the format, contents and structure of your submission are prepared and provided in an
acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the Subcontractor's entitlement and the
Contractor's ability to evaluate these Prolongations Costs to the satisfaction of all parties.
This is for your information, record, action and we look forward to receiving the required information.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Inspection Following Ceiling Fall Incident

Dear Sir,
Kindly find enclosed the Engineer’s letter referenced (1) above which is self-explanatory. Specifically, the
Engineer’s letter is regarding an incident on site where a previously installed ceiling panel became
dislodged and fell at level 1 of the CP area. For clarity and for the purpose of interpretation, “the
Contractor” in the Engineer’s letter shall be read as “the Subcontractor”.
In light of the above, you are instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to
immediately take appropriate action and submit all required information and comply with the
Engineer’s request accordingly.
You are hereby advised to implement strict preventive measures in order to avoid such incidents in the
future. Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other
Sub-Contractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility
including but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors] and shall be deducted/backcharged from your interim payments accordingly
You are therefore required to reply with all the information requested within 3 working days upon
receipt of this letter. This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Commercial Meeting with the Engineer 29 April 2018
Dear Sir,
Further to the receipt of the above referenced letter dated 03 May 2018 regarding the meeting held
with
the Employer and Engineer to discuss various commercial proposals, we clarify as follows
The Engineer has confirmed that it rejects any additional costs to provide the GID Printer Solution. The
solution is required in order to comply with the IFC information. Therefore, the Subcontractor shall
provide a compliant technical solution without any additional cost in accordance with the requirements
of
the Specifications. The Subcontractor shall be solely responsible for any delay due to its failure to
provide
a compliant solution to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
The Engineer dismisses any entitlement for additional costs due to the Employer's Design Consultants
response to the RFI raised by the Subcontractor. It is noted that the Subcontractor raised the RFI despite
the existence of IFC design. It gave no indication that relocation of the Workstations would incur any
additional costs. The design information was given in a timely fashion and therefore any delay is due to
the Subcontractor's failure to act.
The Engineer confirmed it does not wish to take up the Subcontractor's proposal to provide furniture in
the L3A rooms. The Subcontractor should raise an appropriate RFI to clarify any further query. The
provision of furniture has no bearing on the Subcontractors ability to progress with its Works.
The Engineer rejects any entitlement to additional costs to implement the proposed Oversize Detection
modifications. These modifications are required due to a deficiency in the Subcontractors design noted
during Site Testing. The Subcontractor is responsible for providing a Baggage Handling System fit for
purpose in compliance with the Specification. Any delay that may occur due to the need to modify the
existing system is solely the responsibility of the Subcontractor
Subject:

Re: Central Processor Level 2, Pier 1 Connection – Instruction to Close Metal Ceiling - CVI

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) regarding the subject matter and we inform you that we
acknowledge the content therein. Please proceed and complete the works in a timely manner pursuant
to the provisions under Clause 16.3 [Subcontract Programme] of the Subcontract Agreement.
We hereby remind you that you are responsible to ensure that the Works are coordinated properly with
other trades and/or subcontractors prior to the installation to avoid any clashes and rework pursuant to
the provisions under Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the Subcontract
Agreement.

We are confident that you will comply with the above information and that you will proceed with due
diligence to complete the Works by the target completion date and ensure that any damages are
avoided.
The above is for your information, record and further immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Notice to Correct: Bumper Guard at Central Space, L0 Arrival Area

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject please be informed that the Bumper Guard installed by you at L0
Arrival Area has been incorrectly placed at a level lower than the specified one and is not matching with
the approved level as per the attached shopdrawings. Therefore, we hereby instruct you pursuant to
Clauses 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and
take action to rectify the aforementioned accordingly.
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
As mentioned above, all associated costs will be backcharged from your account according to the
Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement
Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Bumper guard by LM is installed at a level lower than required and affecting stone and skirting
completion.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Use of Aluminum Composite Panels (ACP}
Dear Sir,
It has been established that there are significant differences between the con.figuration of the ACP
assemblies and the original test data provided by the Contractor. These differences include but not
limited to, variations in the cavity width of the assemblies and the jointing arrangement between
panels.
The use of ACP and associated assemblies fall under the Curtain Walling Specification (074201) which is
a
performance specification. Therefore, it is the Contractor's responsibility to demonstrate such

assemblies meet the requirements of the International Building Code (IBC} 2006, which forms the basis
of the Fire Strategy for MTB.
Section 1407.10.4 of the 2006 version ofthe IBC requires metal composite materials containing plastic to
be tested to NFPA 285 Standard Fire Test Method for Evaluation of Fire Propagation Characteristics of
Exterior Non Load Bearing Wall Bearing Assemblies Containing Combustible Components.
Please provide evidence you have met your contractual obligations with respect to the fire performance
of such assemblies. This evidence shall include but not limited to:
• Identification of the various different configurations of assemblies involving the use of ACP.
• Fire test data from an accredited testing house which demonstrates such configurations do not
adversely affect the overall fire performance of the assemblies in comparison to the criteria
detailed in NFPA 285.
Subject Snagging de-snagging Through Zutec
Dear Sir,
In response to your letter (1), the three week Zutec trial for snagging and de-snagging was concluded
on 07 April 2018, after which the hard copy formats that were running in parallel to Zutec were to be
discontinued. Zutec has been officially operational as the single system for recording
snagging/desnagging
starting 08 April 2018.
Whilst you previously supplied the room areas details to enable Zutec be setup for snagging and
desnagging,
it recently transpired that some building area information was missing and this requires your
action and update. You are currently identifying these areas and in the interim, snag/de-snag hard
copies have been accepted and processed by the Engineer to avoid any delays.
You provided details for the missing areas in Piers 1 and 2 Gatehouses entrance walls and cladding
which has now been uploaded to Zutec. Please review the rest of the Piers and the CP for any other
areas and systems omitted from Zutec and provide your updates as required to ensure the Zutec
system is fully updated and useable for snagging and de-snagging.
Subject Inspection Following Ceiling Panel Fall Incident
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Contractor's recent incident where a previously installed ceiling panel
became dislodged and fell 25 meters, landing in close proximity to personnel operating at level 2 of the
CP Area of the MTB.
The Engineer and the Employer are yet to receive any progress updates as to the agreed and required
reinspection
of each installed ceiling panel that was detailed in post incident meetings and to be
conducted as a matter of priority.
The Engineer requires the Contractor to provide the following overdue information for the ceiling panels
and the inspection hatches:

• A specific strategy detailing the re-inspections and what they will entail, as well as confirmation
of the re-testing criteria, and method.
• It was also suggested that the removal of the polythene and the required cleaning of these
panels will be done simultaneously, please confirm.
• Program scheduling the start and completion of each section, including inspection milestones.
• Prevention measures to avoid any further disturbance of panels and inspection hatches.
• Detail the WIR process and communication to the Engineer.
• Contractor's point of contact who will be leading this inspection activity. The Contractor is required to
respond with all the information requested within 3 working days upon
receipt of this letter.
Subject: Project Director- Absenteeism
Dear Sir,
Further to the Principals Meeting of 24 April 2018, the Contractor records the absence of the
Subcontractor's Project Director Mr. Nicholas Galati from said meeting. This absence was without prior
notification and is of further concern since Mr. Galati is also the Subcontractor's appointed
representative.
The failure to attend the aforementioned meeting and a number of high level management meetings
over
the last few months has been noted by the Principals and for the avoidance of doubt is entirely
unacceptable without prior notification, explanation and delegation of authority pursuant to Clause
12.8.6
Conditions of Subcontract.
Notwithstanding the above, the Subcontractor is to advise the Contractor forthwith when Mr.Galati will
return to resume his duties and obligations under the Subcontract.
However, should Mr Galati be unable to perform his duties and obligations under the Subcontract,
which
include representation at high level management meetings, the Subcontractor pursuant to Clause 12.8
of
the Conditions of Subcontract shall confirm in writing a suitable replacement for due consideration by
the
Contractor.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Additional Cost for Revision of Model for Central Pavilion due to Glass Screen
Dear Sir,
Modulation to Follow GRC Panels
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor requests an additional
payment of AED 10,800.00 for allegedly revising its BIM model further to the issuance of Request for

Information Nos. 9149 (RFI-9149) and 13614 (RFI-13614).
Firstly, the Contractor confirms that the Design Consultant's response to RFI-9149 simply clarified that
the
glass modulation had to follow the GRC. It is further confirmed that in June 2015 (date on which this
response
was given) the Subcontractor had not yet produced the BIM model; hence, there could not have been
any
abortive I remodelling works vis-a-vis RFI-9149.
In relation to the content of RFI-13614, the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor raised this request
for
information to identify some discrepancies between the GRC and the glass modulation. Subsequently,
the
Design Consultant addressed the Subcontractor's query by either accepting the Subcontractor's
proposals or
deferring to the Drawings' order of precedence introduced via Bulletin No. 169.
Please be reminded that it is part of the design obligation of the Subcontractor to immediately notify the
Contractor in writing if it finds any inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in any of the Drawings
provided by the Contractor for the execution of the Subcontract Works. The Contractor shall then issue
any
clarification and/or instruction necessary to resolve such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy,
i.e. it
shall respond to the request for information. The Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor
that
the provisions of Sub-Clause 9.6.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract clearly state that 'the Subcontractor
shall
not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional
cost or
adjustment to the Subcontract Price as a consequence of such clarification or instruction'.
Further, the Contractor refers the Subcontractor to its transmittal (2) which enclosed the
Subcontractor's
Request for Variation Order No. 894 (RFV0-894). In RFV0-894 the Subcontractor confirmed to both the
Contractor and the Employer that the changes associated to Bulletin No. 169 had neither cost nor time
impact In view of the above, the Contractor is of the opinion that, unless demonstrated otherwise, the
Subcontractor
should not be compensated for the additional works claimed in its submission (1).
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Re: Delay Notice – Delaying the MEP 3rd Fix

With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1) above we hereby
respond to your letter reference (2) above regarding the delays in the MEP 3rd fix.
Please note that we acknowledge the fact that the ceiling painting works is under our scope, however, it
is your failure to complete the taping and jointing of the ceiling that has caused the delays. This is due to
the fact that in order for us to proceed with the ceiling coating, it requires the aforementioned activities
to be completed. Therefore, since the taping and jointing of the ceiling have not been completed we
have been unable to proceed with the ceiling coating and subsequent fixing of the MEP 3rd fix.
Moreover, in regards to your statement that “MEP did not give M/s Cloisall the required clearances to
close the ceiling”, please be informed that you have an obligation under the Subcontract to follow our
instructions respectively, hence when you receive a confirmation/instruction to proceed with ceiling
closure, you have a duty to comply correspondingly, which will subsequently enable us to complete the
MEP works above the ceiling, accordingly.
In response to your statement that you are holding the works in the absence of the issuance of the
pending Variation Order for the GYB-04 Fire rated ceilings, your refusal and failure to proceed with the
works as per our instruction is unacceptable. Please be informed that it is your contractual obligation to
proceed with the Contractor’s Instruction expeditiously and without delay, pursuant to Clause 11.3
[Instructions of the Contract] of the Subcontract Agreement.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Subcontract for Back of House Signage Works Package

Dear Sir,
Further to your Tender Documents, meetings held and correspondences carried out, we are pleased to
award you the Back of House Signage Works Package for the Midfield Terminal Building Project.
You are required to:
1.
Initial all pages of the Subcontract,
2.
Indicate name and position of your key personnel in Schedule 1 (Subcontract Particulars),
3.
Provide quantification for your expected diesel usage in Schedule 20 (Specified Materials) if
applicable and;
4.
Sign the Form of Agreement (by your Principal Officer) and stamp this and all the pages within
the Subcontract with your Company stamp.

You are expected to return the completed and executed Subcontract Agreement (in triplicate, as issued)
within 7 days of receiving it.
We look forward to a mutually rewarding association on this Project.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Request for Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) for
RFI/0401/7837 – Sound Absorbing Panels Build-Up Discrepancy
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer’s response to RFI reference: (1) above, please be advised that the
information, comments, clarifications and/or instructions (the Instruction) contained therein constitute
an instruction of a Variation.
The Instruction requires, No objection to Contractor’s proposal to satisfy the specified 2-hr fire
resistance rating. Product detailed description as specified in section 098413, (clause 2.1), does not
achieve the required acoustic and fire rating performance. Consequently, in order to achieve the
required acoustic and fire rating performance, the following panel build-up is proposed:
•
2mm perforated steel sheet
•
2 x 75mm Rockwool insulation thickness
•
2mm perforated steel sheet
In light of the above, we consider that, the Instruction contains a Variation that is not in the form of, or
which has not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of, a formal Variation Order.
In accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) of the Conditions of Contract, please provide a formal
confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a), within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter.
Unless and until the Engineer takes this required action, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract, the Contractor would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the
above described Variation.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Payment Terms and Conditions

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter please note that Notes 3 and 4 of Appendix D - Schedule of
Rate and Prices of Schedule 1 [The Services] of the Subcontract Professional Services Agreement state
the following:
Note 3 - “The Sub-Contractor's invoice is submitted upon receiving of the Employer approval on the
edited video files”;
Note 4 – “Payment is due 30 days from the date upon the receipt of the approved invoice”.

Notwithstanding the above and in consideration of the fact that is taking the Employer a long time to
approve the videos, as a gesture of goodwill we shall proceed with the payment of the submitted videos
taking into consideration the following conditions:
1.
The acceptance of the final cut and/or payment of the video does not relieve you from your
duties and obligations under the Subcontract, to acquire the approval of the Employer;
2.
In any case that the Employer requires editing on the final cut of an already paid video, it is your
obligation to do it in a timely manner and without additional cost to us.
Please note that all Terms and Condition of the Subcontract Professional Services Agreement remain the
same.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and the submitted RFI wherein the Contractor provided
its suggested rectification methodology for approval.
The root cause for the settlement has not been identified to date, therefore until the Contractor
evidences that it is not culpable for these defects, the NCRs No. 850, 869, 888 and 923 shall remain open
and the Contractor remains responsible under Clause 15.5.
The Design Consultant has been tasked with reviewing the proposal and comment on the investigation
report. In order to avoid any delays to the Project delivery the Contractor is directed to immediately
proceed with rectification works including procurement, design of temporary works and/or any other
necessary work required to rectify and reinstate the works in accordance with the contract .
Yours faithfully,
SUBJECT RE: CONTRACTORS CLAIM SUMMARY OF CONTRA CHARGES
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above Letter Reference No #1, and subsequent to receipt of M/s. TCAJV's Letter
Reference No #2, M/s. Cloisall write to notify the following pertaining to details contained within the
Charge submission from M/s. TCAJV.
M/s. Cloisall accepted/agreed the majority of the contra charge, however we do wish to raise our
concerns/disagreement on the back charge reference TCAJV-BC-03654 imposed upon us.
It has been agreed with TCAJV's representative (Mr. Siva), for M/s. Cloisall to supply Aluminium
cladding materials to M/s. Mill Fabrication and that the related installation cost as per our Contract
Agreement will be back charge (Refer enclosed e-mail correspondence).
M/s. TCAJV has issued the installation cost which we refute/reject amounting AED 287,700.00 and
refer to the enclosed calculation of cost based on our contract agreement which amounts to an
installation cost of AED 26,502.66 (Enclosed evaluation/RFVO, drawing and agreed rate breakdown).
M/s. Cloisall request the JV to review and correct the imposed charges in the next IPC. Trust the

aforementioned suffice, however should you have any further information related to the matter,
please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: Central Processor Level 2, Pier 1 Connection – Instruction to Close Metal Ceiling - CVI

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) regarding our instruction as per the subject matter. We
acknowledge the content of your letter and confirm our verbal instruction to proceed with the works to
close the metal ceiling of the second fix installation of the fire hose cabinet in the Central Processor
Level 2, Pier 1. Please be informed that due to the urgency of the works we have instructed you to
proceed and complete the works in a timely manner pursuant to the provisions under Clause 16.3
[Subcontract Programme].
We hereby remind you that you are responsible to ensure that the Works are coordinated properly with
other trades and or subcontractors prior to the installation to avoid any clashes and rework pursuant to
the provisions under Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the Subcontract
Agreement.
We are confident that you will comply with the above information and that you will proceed with due
diligence to complete the Works by the target completion date and ensure that any damages are
avoided.
The above is for your information, record and further immediate action.
Yours faithfully,

Subject Subcontractor's Commercial Team
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the requests for reimbursement of additional costs submitted by the
Subcontractor
recently and shares its dissatisfaction with the quality of these submissions. To be clear:
None of the submissions prepared by the Subcontractor provide the minimum level of information vis-avis
the entitlement, substantiation, effect and quantum of its claims. These documents consist of a brief
cover
page, an unsubstantiated summary cost and random attachments which purpose is not explained and,
in

many instances, not understood by the Contractor. Moreover, these claims neglect any time-related
provision
of the Subcontract as they relate to additional works allegedly undertaken years ago.
Having no intention of depriving the Subcontractor of its rights, the Contractor is unable to assess the
Subcontractor's entitlements with the level and quality of the information provided to date. In addition,
it is
regrettable that the Contractor is being prevented from forwarding, presenting and discussing many
Variations with the Engineer I Employer due to the lack of information and back-up documentation
provided
by the Subcontractor thus far.
Further to numerous meetings and discussions held with representatives of the Subcontractor, the
Contractor
believes that the personnel employed by the Subcontractor is incapable of producing commercial
submissions
that meet the standards of the Project and that enable the Contractor to determine any additional
payment
the Subcontractor may be entitled to. Hence, the Contractor confirms that the members of the
Subcontractor's Commercial Department have been carrying out their duties both incompetently and
negligently.
The Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor that the provisions of the Subcontract clearly
state
that the Subcontractor's Personnel shall be appropriately qualified, skilled and experienced in their
respective
trades or occupations; yet, the members of the Subcontractor's Commercial Department are not. In
view of
the foregoing, the Contractor adheres to its rights under Sub-Clause 14.9.3 of the Conditions of
Subcontract
and requires these persons to be removed and replaced by competent individuals experienced in
managing all
commercial aspects of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:

Notification of Paint Damages at PG1, PG2 & PG3 Facade Steelwork

Dear Sir,
We write with regards to the damages as described in the enclosed letter received from M/S J&H with
photo-evidence which is self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the content of M/S J&H’s letter, we regret to inform you that your site
personnel has damaged some of the completed works as per the subject matter, while carrying out your

works. You are hereby requested to review the contents of M/S J&H’s letter and its intention to claim
for the damages.
Meanwhile, we request you to provide a comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment on the
same within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter. Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and
back charge all the reinstatement cost and other associated cost from your account according to the
Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and Clause 12.12 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] whereby you are liable for the loss and damages arising out of
your actions.
This is for your information, record and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Re: Engineer's Instruction No. 662B - Reinstate the Omission of Stone
Floor Tiling Installation at L0.0 Business Limo Waiting Area (EI 662A) and at L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace
(EI 662)
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (4) which is a response to our letters referenced (2 & 3)
above and the previous correspondences referenced therein, confirming the Engineer’s Instruction for
the reinstatement of the works described as per the subject matter above.
For the avoidance of doubt, we would like to clarify our position regarding the cost and reiterate our
request as per the content of our aforementioned letters (2 & 3) as follows:
•
There is no cost or time impact with the re-introduction of the works omitted via EI No. 662 & EI
No. 662A. Nevertheless, a confirmation regarding the revised rates and quantities submitted via our
letter reference (1) is still pending;
•
There is a cost impact associated with the works of Stone Floor Installation with respect to the
revised layout of L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace. Therefore, a confirmation and/or approval of the changes
incorporated via Bulletin 137.1 and analysed under our submitted RFVO/0401/703-SC/061 is still
pending;
In light of the above, we shall consider your letter referenced (4) as an official confirmation that the
bullet-points above and the content of our letters reference (2 & 3) has been accepted. Please be
reminded that all of the above are explained in detail in our letters referenced (2 & 3).
We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter; however, should you require any
further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:

Delay Notice – Chandeliers and Cladding Materials at CP area

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our numerous notifications, we hereby put
on record your on-going delays in the completion of your works in a timely manner as required and
inform you that you are required to take immediate action as described below.
In light of the above, be informed that the works described below need your urgent attention:
1.
You have failed to achieve the target dates provided for the completion of the chandeliers
specifically at the CP area;
2.
Ensure that the chandeliers at the CP area are completed by 3rd June 2018;
3.
We have serious concerns about the completion date as the cladding materials of the CP
chandeliers have not been delivered to site yet, although the steel supports have been completed a long
time ago.
You are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in order to complete the
aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with mitigation measures to recover
the delays caused by you due to the incomplete works.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.

Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: Incident Report for Damaged Sign – ANEL’s response

Dear Sir,
Further to your letter referenced in (2) above, please find enclosed response we have received from M/S
ANEL reference in (5) above which is self-explanatory.

Pursuant to the conditions of Subcontract Clauses -15.6.2, 24.2.1 & 24.2.2., you are hereby reminded of
your obligation under the Subcontract to protect the works until such a time as ownership of the same
transfers to the Employer upon the issuance of the Taking Over Certificate (TOC).
In case, you wish to pursue a claim against another Subcontractor, the onus is on you to provide correct
particulars in the form of substantiation/ evidence of the damage. In this regard you have failed to
demonstrate as such hence you are liable for your negligence.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: Application for Taking Over and Release of Retention Monies

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters referenced (1) and (2) above and our discussion regarding the subject matter
and we hereby inform you of the following:
Please be informed that pursuant to the conditions under paragraph 8 [Retention] of Schedule 11
[Payment Terms] of the Subcontract, you are not entitled to the release of the Retention amount
against a corresponding Retention Bond as stated in your letter reference (1) above.
In regards to your request as per your letter reference (2) wherein you have applied for a Taking Over
Certificate (TOC), please note that the TOC is subject to the Engineer’s issuance. Pursuant to the
Subcontract Clause 18.1.1 [Taking Over of the Subcontract Works and Milestones] “Subject to clause
18.2 (Taking Over of Parts of the Subcontract Works) a Taking Over Certificate shall only be issued on
Substantial Completion […]”. Moreover, the Subcontract Clause 18.1.8 clearly specifies that
“Notwithstanding the provisions of this clause 18.1, the Subcontractor agrees that receipt by the
Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the Works from the Engineer is
a condition precedent for the issuance by Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the
relevant part of the Subcontract Works, unless otherwise agreed”. Accordingly, please be informed that
the Engineer has not yet issued any TOC for any of the parts of the works for any of the Subcontractors
in the Project. Consequently, a response would be provided only after the Engineer provides its
Determination, issuance and/or a response to the same.
In view of the above, please be informed that the return of the Retention Bond and the release of the
retention monies are subject to the issue of TOC for Substantial Completion. Consequently, since the
TOC for Substantial Completion has not been issued by the Engineer yet, as stated above, we are unable
to proceed with the issuance of the same. Therefore, once the aforementioned is issued by the Engineer
we shall proceed with the provisions provided within the Subcontract and described herein to release
the Retention Bond and the retention amounts accordingly.

In response to your statement made in your letter referenced (2) above, regarding the expenses
associated with the renewal of Insurance Policies, Bonds and Warranties, we would suggest that you
continue submitting any costs related to your prolongation costs to ensure that all relevant evidence is
put on record for evaluation.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:List of Agreed RFVO’s - Finishes
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1) above, regarding
the issuance of pending Variation Orders, we hereby enclose a list of the RFVO’s which a response for
issuance of Variation Orders respectively is long overdue.
As stated in our letter reference (1) the attached list of agreed RFVO’s has been submitted in order for
the Engineer to issue Variation Orders respectively. However, to date no Variation Order has been
issued for the listed RFVO’s, accordingly.
We once again reiterate and kindly request your early determination and issuance of the Variation
Orders pursuant to the Contract Clauses 20.3.2 [Variation Procedure] and 11.4.1 [Determinations],
within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
We hereby request for your immediate and necessary action for the issuance of these Variation Orders.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:

Delay Notice Nr 2 – Remaining Cut Pieces at Ceiling in CP2 L0.0/L0.1

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1), we put on record
once again your persistent failure in the completion of your works in a timely manner. We also note that
our instructions provided via our said letter have not been complied, particularly the allocation of
sufficient manpower. As a result, we reiterate that the works at CP2 - L0.0/L0.1 highlighted in the
enclosed drawing need your urgent attention.
In light of the above and as discussed in our letter referenced (1), we hereby instruct you pursuant to
Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to take immediate action accordingly.

This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Target Programme to Completion Updated Rev 10.4
Dear Sir,
Please find enclosed both an Excel and PDF version of Programme Updated Rev 10.4 with a data date of
151 February
2018. The Updated Rev 10.4 Programme represents the collaborative effort between the Employer,
Engineer,
Contractor and Subcontractors to achieve substantial completion of the Works by 30 June 2019.
At present, Programme Updated Rev 10.4 is not an approved Programme as understood either under
the terms of
the Contract between the Employer and the Contractor or the terms of the Subcontract between the
Contractor and
the Subcontractor. However, the Engineer intends to use Programme Updated Rev 10.4 for monitoring
and control
purposes with respect to the Contractor and Subcontractors until it is approved or superseded by a
revised approved
Programme.
Accordingly, we would request you to provide us with, for monitoring and control purposes, your target
programme
to completion which aligns with Programme Updated Rev 10.4. We would request you to provide this to
us by 31
March 2018.
Please note that this letter is not, of itself, to be considered as: (i) an admission of any entitlement to an
extension of
time and/or entitlement to additional payment; or (ii) requiring the Subcontractor to comply with an
accelerated
schedule; or (iii) constituting a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
We look forward to your cooperation with this matter and timely receipt of your submission. Should you
have any
queries please do not hesitate, in the first instance, to contact our Planning Manager.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Direct communication with the Employer and Engineer
With reference to the above and subsequent to receipt of your letter reference 2, kindly be informed
that we take cognizance of its content and confirm our utmost compliance and adherence with the
same.

We trust the above suffice, meets your approval and concludes the matter, however should you require
any further clarification please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours Faithfully
Subject Contractor's Claim: Compensation for Employer's Breach of Contract {Specification
Dear Sir,
We refer to our letter referenced as (1) above, part of which was a reply to your letter referenced as (2)
above, and note that we have not received any response from you.
The electrical works that the Contractor alleged to have been omitted from the Contract are not part of
the Works under the Contract. Therefore, there cannot be any omission and loss of profit and
overheads.
Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013115 does not place any obligation on the Employer to ensure
that Tenant Contractors employ for their fit out works the Contractor's Subcontractors. The purpose of
the paragraph is to make sure Tenant Contractors procure systems which are the same as or similar to
those provided by the Contractor to ensure continuity and compatibility for a seamless integration of
these systems.
As you are aware, many of the Contractor's Subcontractors, including Anel Emirates, are failing to fulfill
their obligations relating to their existing contracted scope. The Contractor's position that its
Subcontractors can even fulfill additional scope is not true.
Please respond to this letter no later than 7 Days from the date above if you disagree.
Subject: Response to the Engineer's letter- Communication Protocol
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor would respond as follows:
The Contractor notes the content and concern of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. Please be
advised that, the Contractor does not accept and has discouraged any direct communication between
any
Subcontractor and the Employer and/or the Engineer. The Contractor shall investigate and discuss with
Guinault-Lebrun Aircraft Power Systems LLC {GL) about this matter, and shall take necessary actions
accordingly.
The Contractor would highlight the following:
• The Contractor does not have a copy of GL's letter reference (3) above to comment on its content,
as it was not enclosed with the Engineer's letter reference (1) above;
• GL's letter reference (4) above is predominantly related to its performance. Please be advised that,
the Employer has retained the liability for the design and performance of GL's scope of works; and
• In accordance with item no.5 of the Engineer's Instruction No. 35C, whereby the Engineer instructed
the Contractor to appoint GL to implement the Pre-Conditioned Air {PCA) Sub-Freeze Equipment
works, the Contractor understands that, there is a form of direct contract/agreement between the
Employer and GL for design and performance warranty. As such, direct communication between the

Employer and GL is expected.
Considering the above, the Contractor is of the opinion that the direct receipt of GL's letter reference {4)
was acceptable to the Employer and the Engineer, as it is related to the direct contract between the
Employer and GL. This is evidenced by not receiving any objections by the Employer and/or the Engineer
for more than six months.
However, based on the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor shall investigate these
incidents and take necessary actions to stop any further attempts from GL to communicate directly with
the Employer, even for the matters related to its direct contract with the Employer. The Contractor
requests that, the Engineer will advise the Contractor within a reasonable time, should this is not be the
case.
Subject: RE: Claim for Damage- CSC Request for Loading Access in Skylight CL-01
Dear_Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter references (1) and (2) wherein the Subcontractor claims that
personnel employed by the Subcontractor China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC)
damaged the steel frame whilst undertaking lifting operations through the main roof skylight Cll. The
Subcontractor further argues that it incurred additional rectification costs in the amount of AED
2,688.00.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that, in its letter references (1) and (2), the Subcontractor does not provide
any
evidence or explanation on how the Subcontract Works were protected. Moreover, these letters attach
a
recollection of pictures showing lifting operations taking place; yet, it can be observed that no
protection
measures were taken by the Subcontractor to protect the painted steel frame from being 'scratched' by
the
crane's cables, chains or lifted beams.
The Contractor reminds that, pursuant to Clauses 15.6.2 and 24.2.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract,
the
Subcontractor shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection of each part of
the
Subcontract Works until such time as the Taking-Over Certificate is issued by the Contractor.
Please be advised that the Contractor is of the opinion that, in its letter references (1) and (2), the
Subcontractor has not demonstrated contractual entitlement to reimbursement of the alleged
rectification
costs. Notwithstanding this, the Contractor confirms that the Subcontractor's claim has been forwarded
to
CSCEC for its review. Should CSCEC provide any response, it will be forwarded to the Subcontractor in
due
course.
Yours faithfully,

Subject Communication Protocol
Dear Sir,
We write on behalf of the Employer who is in receipt of correspondence (1) and (2) above issued by your
Subcontractor Guinault-Lebrun Aircraft Power Systems LLC directly to the Employer.
The Contractor is reminded that any such direct communication between any third party and/or your
Subcontractors and the Employer is unacceptable and will not be considered neither contractual
correspondence nor will it be responded to.
The Contractor is responsible for the management of its Subcontractors and in strict adherence to the
Project's established lines of communication and protocol and shall remind its Subcontractors that any
communication with the Employer shall be made via the Contractor.
We trust the Contractor will adhere to the above
Subject: Subcontractors lack of Progress (as of 31 March 2018)
Dear Sir,
Further to notice of delay. references (1) to {17) issued in ·respect of the slow progress of the
Subcontract
Works, the Contractor reiterates its concerns in -relation to·the Subcontractor's performance arnd its
ability. to
achieve the completion dates set out in both rev. 10.4 of the Programme in the memorandum of
understanding no. 4 (MOU) for the release of on-account:payments to the Subcontractor.
In addition to the Subcontractor's inabilit¥ to meet its target completion dates, the main concern is the
Subcontractor' s continued· failure to manage its supply chain-effectively and, in particular EFP, who is
its sole
supplier for all aluminium composite panels (ACP) material ·r-equired to complete the wrapper roofs,
gate houses, central processor (CP') soffit, ·bullnose fascia and infill.panels.
Further, the Contractor records its worries in 'fespect of the :progress of the CP main roof west soffit
accress
hanging scaffold, as the current rate of erection may jeopardise 'the overall target completion of the
soffit.
In relation to the above, please find below a summary table depicting the status of the on-goirng
activities as
of 28 March 2018 which is self-explanatory: Considering the productivity rates achieved by the
Subcontractor thus far, the Contractor is concerned that
the coming completion dates will also not be achieved.
Main issues relating to programme, procurement and labour resources that require the Subcontractor's
immediate attention are summarised hereunder:
Programme:
lnfill north: failure to meet the agreed completion date on 31 March 2018 and the current target
completion is by 30 April 2018.
lnfill gutters: still not completed and significantly behind programme.

lnfill standing seam: still not completed despite rev. 10.4 of the Programme scheduling completion on
26 February 2018 for the south infill and on 07 March 2018 for the north infill.
CP skylight ACP: due for completion by 31 January 2018; yet, the delivery of material will not be
completed until30 April2018 and with installation scheduled to be completed by 17 May 2018.
Wrapper ACP: north and south requires 4,456m2 completed by 31 May 2018, which equates to 495m2
per week for the next nine weeks. (However, the Subcontractor's average for the last two months is
279m2 per week and the final ACP material delivery is not scheduled until 28 May 2018).
Gatehouses ACP: non-completed gatehouses since 27 Feb 2017 and, whilst GH11, GH22 and GH24 are
imminent, the Subcontractor still has 45 no. gatehouses to complete by 03 November 2018. CP main
roof: perimeter gutters still not completed (e.g. west and east}, perimeter bullnose (excl.
soffit area} not scheduled to be completed until 31 August 2018 and exhaust towers not scheduled to
be completed until19 July 2018.
Wrapper roofs: skylight flashings not scheculed to be completed until 28 June 2018 and exhaust
towers until 30 June 2018.
lnfill: inclined glazing head panels not scheduled to be completed until 31 May 2018, inclined louvres
until17 May 2018 and bullnose fascia not until15 July 2018.
Procurement:
Labour:
CP skylight ACP deliveries not planned to be completed until 30 April 2018; as highlighted above, the
installation of the CP skylight ACP should have been completed on 31 January 2018.
Perimeter bullnose fascia deliveries not planned to be completed until 30 June 2018; yet, the
completion date for these installation works in the Programme is 31 May 2018.
CP exhaust tower material deliveries not planned to be completed until 01 June 20118 and the
wrappers until10 June 2018.
Wrapper skylight flashing deliveries not planned to be completed until 20 June 2018; yet the wrapper
should have been completed in December 2017.
lnfilllouvre deliveries not planned to be completed until 31 May 2018
lnfill bullnose fascia deliveries not planned to be completed until 31 May 2018 (south) and 30 June
2018 (north}.
The Subcontractor's labour resources appear to have plateaued irrespective of the substantial backlog
of incomplete Subcontract Works.
In view of the lack of site progress witnessed vis-a-vis the Subcontract Works and in the absence of any
mitigation measures implemented by the Subcontractor thus far, please be notified that, in the opinion
of the
Contractor, the performance of the installation works is such that it may result in the Contractor not
achieving
its own obligations under the Contract. Therefore, tl'le Subcontractor is requested to take all reasonable
steps
to ensure completion of these works in accordance with its contractual obligations under Sub-Clause
8.1.2
and Sub-Clause 16.1.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract.

The Contractor advises the Subcontractor that the continued slippage to the target completion dates
resulting
from the Subcontractor's slow progress may be treated as Concurrent Delay pursuant to the provisions
of the
Conditions of Subcontract. Please be further reminded that the Contractor's rights under the provisions
of
Sub-Clause ·10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Sub-Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] are reserved.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's Failure to Provide Reasonable Evidence of Payments to SubsubcontractorDear Sir,
With reference to the Contractor's Jetter r eference (1) and the Subcontractor's response reference (2)
above, the ContractorwoUild respond as fol:lows.
The appointment type of Ruskin Titus Gulf Manufacturing L.L.C. (i.e. as a Sub-subcontractor or a
supplier)
does not change the contractual position of the Contractor or the Subcontractor, specified in Sub-Clause
21.3.3 [Payments to Sub-subcontractors] of the Conditions of Subcontract.
The Contractor's demand for reasonablle evidence of payments is for all previous payments to the
Subsubcontractor
or the supplier, and is not li mited to the few months highlighted by the Subcontractor in the
letter reference (2). As such, the Subcontractor has failed to comply with the Contractor's demand as
required by Sub-Clause 21.3.3 [Payments to Sub-subcontractors) of the Conditions of Subcontract.
In light of the above, the Contractor shall withhold, pursuant to Sub-Clause 21.3.3.(a) of the Conditions
of
Subcontract, the total :amount, which the supplier has claimed as due (AED 631,990.46), from future
payments to the Subcontractor, until the Subcontractor resolves this issue with its supplier and provides
the Contractor with reasonab:le evidence for all payments to the supplier.
Moreover, the Contractor rejects the Subcontractor's assertion that the Contractor has prejudiced the
Subcontractor's ability to determine the amounts due to the Sub-subcontractors and/or suppliers. The
Subcontractor shall be responsible for the proper administration of its Sub-subcontract and/or supplier
packages, and the assessment of the value of the work done by each subcontractors and/or the
suppliers. Besides, the Contractor formally records this incident as another failure of the Subcontractor
to properly
administer its Sub-subcontract and/or supplier packages. The Contractor reserves its rights to recover
from the Subcontractor, pursuant to Sub-Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claim], 12.12 [Other Contractors
and
Other Subcontractors], 16.6 [Delay Damages] of the Conditions of Subcontract, all associated costs,
losses,
expenses and damages that may be incurred by the Contractor, due to the Subcontractor's failure to
comply with the Subcontractor's contractual obligations under the Subcontract.

Yours faithfully,
Subject Clause 27.1.5 (b)- Further Interim Particulars
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) regarding the submission of Interim Particulars and Time
Impact Analyses {TIAs).
The Contractor attempted to justify its noncompliance by referring to part of Clause 27.1.9 without
demonstrating its compliance with the entirely Clause 27.1.9. We reiterate the full wording of Clause
27 .1.9 "The requirements of this clause 27.1 are in addition to those of any other provision of the
Contract which may apply to a claim. If the Contractor fails to comply with this or another such provision
in relation to any claim, any extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost
and/or adjustment to the Contract Price shall take account of the extent (if any) to which the failure has
prevented or prejudiced proper investigation of the claim, unless the claim is excluded under clause
27.1.2"
We reiterate again that it is the Contractor's obligation to adhere to the Contractual process in respect
to the submitted claims and we once again record that the Contractor has failed to submit the required
TIAs {27.2 Conditions of Contract).

Subject Clause 27 .1.5(a)- Interim Particulars of the Basis of Claim Delay Notice No. 1021
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted the Interim
Particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 1021 issued via {3) for alleged delay subject: "Unreasonable
Status Code 3 Rejection of Electrical Work Inspection Requests (WIR) in relation to the Installation of
Lighting Fixtures, Conduits, Boxes, Public Address Devices, Cable Trunking, and Cable Tray for Earthing
and Bonding".
We record that the Contractor in correspondence (1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged delay
to its programme and furthermore has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements {Clause
1.3.7). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis as required under Clause
27 .2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
The Engineer also records that the Contractor has failed to comply with the provisions of Clause 27.1.5
of the Conditions of Contract to submit full supporting particulars of the basis of the claim.
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Delay Notice - Outstanding works at LB2/LB1

With reference to the above subject matter and in continuation to our letter reference (1) above we
hereby enclose photographic evidences in response to your letter reference (2). The enclosed
information is self-explanatory and provides our comments in regards to your concerns raised in your
letter reference (2).
We reiterate once again that you are required to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in
order to complete the aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with
mitigation measures to recover the delays caused by you.
We reserve all of our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and we hold you completely culpable for
all costs and delays incurred associated with your outstanding works.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Notice to Correct – Zone 11 Welcome Hall

Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous numerous notifications (emails hereby enclosed) regarding the
discrepancies of the coordinates used in Zone 12 and 11 in the Welcome Hall area. We put on record
that you have not used the approved coordinates for the works on site as per shop-drawings reference
SDS/0401/A/1562-05 and that the actual coordinates of the works on site done by you do not match
with the coordinates shown in your latest shop-drawings.
We regret to notice that despite our instructions and notifications to correct, the discrepancy between
actual works on site and your latest shop-drawings has not been rectified. Consequently, you are
instructed pursuant to Clauses 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to
immediately proceed with all required rectifications of the works on site based on the coordinates
shown in your latest and approved shop-drawings.
Please be informed that in case no immediate action is taken, we will have no other option than to
deploy all necessary resources to complete the works on your behalf, which you will be backcharged
accordingly as per Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].

Yours faithfully,
Subject:Delay Notice
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, please be informed that despite all of the continued support that
we have provided in order to aide your progression with both on-site and off-site works, it is evident
that you are still failing to meet the committed milestone dates as per letter referenced 1) above. As a
result, there is a high possibility that all forthcoming completion dates will not be achieved.
Please be reminded, that any further slippages and delays beyond the latest committed completion
dates will have a significant impact on our works; for which you will be held solely responsible.
Therefore, we hereby restate the following committed completion dates that require your immediate
attention and action:
1.
Fabrication and delivery of complete weathered steel to site on or before the end of April 2018;
2.
Complete installation and hand over of all weathered steel including brass on or before 25th
May 2018;
3.
Complete delivery of all glass including all accessories to site on or before 30th April 2018;
4.
Complete installation of all glass and hand over of DMI’s original scope on or before 25th May
2018.
As you are aware, the access ramp to level 2 is planned to be dismantled on or before the end of May
2018. Consequently, any slippage and/or delay beyond the above dates will cause TCAJV to incur costs
which will be subsequently evaluated and deducted from your account. You are hereby requested to
submit an action plan within three (3) working days of receipt of this letter, detailing the necessary
measures you will take in order to mitigate any potential delays to the aforementioned activities.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Re: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,

With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our correspondences referenced above we
hereby provide our response to your letter reference (4). We reiterate our request made via our letter
referenced (3), wherein you have been requested to provide the following information:
1.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Certification Details;
2.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Date of Invoice Issued;
3.
Status of Payment Against Individual Sub-Subcontractor’s Certifications/Invoices;
4.
Date of Payment Made and/or Due to the Sub-Subcontractor;
5.
Number of Days Payment Late (In Accordance with Payment Terms between you and the SubSubcontractor);
6.
Any other relevant documents and/or information.
7.
Provide any QA/QC documents to substantiate the quality issues of M/S Plus Paint described in
your letter reference (4).
In light of the foregoing, please note that to date we have not received any of the information described
above and requested via our letter referenced (3), which will enable us to investigate the matter and
amicably find a solution. Therefore, please expedite submission of the aforementioned information.
Also, be informed that the Engineer is withholding a significant amount of money related to open NCR’s
for the screed works which has not been reflected in your Payment Certificates yet. We shall review the
requirements for the same, in case any action has to be taken accordingly, during the final account.
To conclude, we reiterate our position pursuant to Subcontract Agreement 21.3 [Payment to SubSubcontractors] and Clause 5.4.3 [Interim Payment - Schedule 11 Payment Terms] and reserve all of our
rights derived under the Subcontract Agreement.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: Application for Taking Over and Release of Retention Monies

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters referenced (1) and (2) above and our discussion regarding the subject matter
and we hereby inform you the following.
Please be informed that pursuant to the conditions under Clause 8 [Retention] of Schedule 11 [Payment
Terms], you are not entitled for the release of the retention amount against a corresponding Retention

Bond as stated in your letter reference (1) above. For ease of reference, please note the following
Clauses of Schedule 11:
Clause 8.3 “No Retention Money shall be released, and the value of any Retention Bond shall not be
reduced, on the issue of the Taking Over Certificate for Substantial Completion”.
Clause 8.4 “When the Taking Over Certificate has been issued for NOTP Completion the Subcontractor
may reduce the value of the Retention Bond so that the Total Retention is reduced by fifty percent
(50%)”.
Clause 8.5 “If the value of the Retention Bond is, as a result of paragraph 8.4, reduced to nil the
Contractor shall:
(a) promptly return the Retention Bond to the Subcontractor; and
(b) the amount of Retention Money (if any) necessary to reduce the Total Retention to fifty percent
(50%) of the Total Retention immediately prior to the value of the Retention Bond being reduced under
paragraph 8.4 shall be certified by the Contractor for payment to the Subcontractor”.
Clause 8.6 “Subject to paragraph 8.7, within eighty four (84) days after the expiry of the Defect Liability
Period, the outstanding balance of the Retention Money shall be certified by the Contractor for payment
to the Subcontractor and the Contractor shall return to the Subcontractor any Retention Bond that it
holds”.
Clause 8.7 “However, if any work remains to be executed or defect, deficiency or damage remedied
under clause 19 (Defects Liability), the Contractor shall be entitled (at its sole discretion) to withhold the
estimated cost of this work from the Retention Money until such work has been carried out and
completed and/or the defect, deficiency or damage has been remedied”.
In view of the above, please be informed that the return of the Retention Bond and the release of the
retention monies are subject to the issue of TOC for NOTP Completion (Non-Operational Trial Period).
Consequently, since TOC for NOTP completion has not been issued by the Engineer yet, which is further
explained below, we are unable to proceed with issuance of the same. Therefore once the
aforementioned is issued by the Engineer we shall proceed with the provisions provided within the
Subcontract and described herein to release the Retention Bond and the retention amounts accordingly.
In regards to your request as per your letter reference (2) wherein you have applied for a Taking Over
Certificate (TOC), please note that the TOC is subject to the Engineer’s issuance. Pursuant to Clause
18.1.1 [Taking Over of the Subcontract Works and Milestones] “Subject to clause 18.2 (Taking Over of
Parts of the Subcontract Works) a Taking Over Certificate shall only be issued on Substantial Completion
and NOTP Completion. […]”. Moreover, Clause 18.1.8 clearly specifies that “Notwithstanding the
provisions of this clause 18.1, the Subcontractor agrees that receipt by the Contractor of the relevant
Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the Works from the Engineer is a condition precedent for
the issuance by Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the

Subcontract Works, unless otherwise agreed”. Accordingly, please be informed that the Engineer has
not yet issued any TOC for any of the parts of the works for any of the Subcontractors in the Project.
In response to your statement made in your letter referenced (2) above, regarding the expenses
associated with the renewal of Insurance Policies, Bonds and Warranties, we would suggest that you
continue submitting any costs related to your prolongation costs to ensure that all relevant evidences
related to your prolongation costs are submitted for evaluation.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:Outstanding Submission of Bonds & Insurances

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter, please find enclosed a copy of the Subcontract Insurance
Approval forms, wherein, comments have been noted for your immediate action. Said comments are as
follows:
1.
Third Party Liability
a.
We cannot review a quotation. We need to receive full policy documents once issued for review
and acceptance
2.
Professional Indemnity
a.
We cannot review a quotation. We need to receive full policy documents once issued for review
and acceptance
Furthermore, we note that at the time of writing, you have failed to submit both an Advance Payment &
Performance Guarantee for review & acceptance.
We remind you that no payments shall be made under the Subcontract Agreement until all of the above
are received and approved (Schedule 11 – 5.1 Interim Payments).
Yours Truly,
Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation
Dear Sir,
In response to your referenced letter (2) and other numerous correspondences exchanged between us
in regards to available work-fronts, we respond as follows.

Please rest assured that we have been and continue to be available at all times to ensure good
communication for the smooth progression of the works. Kindly be informed that, we as the Contractor,
have no intention of alleging or stating inaccurate facts as mentioned in your letter reference (2).
We hereby inform you that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (1) above. In general, your letter reference (2), does not provide clarity and/or resolution. In
our letter reference (1) we have used your own submitted progress report as of 22nd February 2018 to
extract the information for the available work-fronts.
We acknowledge your contractual right to advise us of any (if any) circumstances causing delays;
however, you also have the contractual responsibility to comply with the conditions of the Subcontract
and ensure that there are available resources on-site, all mitigation measures have been taken and
works are progressing without delay and are completed on time. Once again we inform you that we
have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the works and you have the obligation to ensure for
the same.
In view of the above, you have been instructed to provide an action plan providing mitigation measures
in accordance with Clause 16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays] which is yet to be submitted. Also, you are
requested once again, to coordinate your works in a proper sequence by means of continuous
communication with our construction team and other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely completion
of the works.
In regards to your comments made under CP L3.0 and CP L2.0 in your said letter, be informed as stated
above, that these comments do not provide any justification and/or resolution. On the other hand, the
comments are actually an admittance that there are indeed enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed with the works. The fact for example, that your comments under CP L3.0, state that the
quantity of available work-fronts is allegedly 4,438m2 instead of 4,996m2 as stated in our letter
reference (1), it is basically indicating that there is an area of 4,438m2 ready for you to commence with
your works. Even if we accept your stated quantity, it is evident that there are indeed enough open
areas to proceed. Moreover, your comments that areas are obstructed from other trades are refuted.
Hence, please be informed that the same principles stated above with respect to the quantities,
available work-fronts, also apply to your comments under CP L2.0, which consequently similarly apply to
your comment about the materials in stock.
Generally, you seem to allege in many instances in your letters about the lack of work-fronts. However,
please be informed that once the screed works are completed and the curing period of fourteen (14)
days has passed, you are required to immediately proceed with the stone installation. In many
instances, you have failed to proceed expeditiously and without delay and due to your failure, other
trades had proceeded accordingly to commence with their works. Therefore, you are requested to take
appropriate action and proceed immediately once the screed is ready for stone installation. To ensure
compliance of the aforementioned you will need to methodically plan your works and coordinate with

us and the other trades as per your contractual obligation pursuant but not limited to Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors].
In view of the above, you are instructed to ensure that all available resources, particularly manpower
are available on site. Therefore, please assign adequate manpower to recover your own delays and
provide us the current progress and anticipated completion dates for your works.
We acknowledge that the Subcontract Completion date has passed and we reiterate once again that the
Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion and your prolongation costs submissions are subject to
the Engineer’s determination. Consequently, a response will be provided once the Engineer provides its
Determination and/or a response to the same.
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Removal of Mr. Charbel Mallo in Accordance with Clause 14.9.3 with Immediate
Effect
Dear Sir,
Further to your letter referenced 'MTB-GL-ADAC-L-0005 dated 11th April 2018' and AECOM's response
referenced 'MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09307 dated 12th April 2018', It has been witnessed that your Mr.
Charbel Mallo [Technical & Contract Manager] has failed to carry out his duties in accordance with t he
Project Communication Protocol procedure as stated in Clause 9.18.1 (Independent Subcontractor), to
have direct communication with the Employer without prior writte,n consent of the Contractor.
We consider the above mentioned personnel in breach of contractual obligations against Clause 9.18.1.
In summary, it is clearly observed that such personnel, has the lack of professionalism which is having a
detrimental effect on t he project and completely unacceptable by TCA JV Management. Thus, we are
left with no alternative but to instruct the removal of such personnel from this project. Accordingly, we
write to notify you of requirement for the removal of your personnel, Mr. Charbel Mallo with immediate
effect from this project under Clause 14.9.3 which for ease of reference states;
'The Contractor may require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed) any key personnel
or any other persons employed on the site or subcontract works, including the Subcontractor's
Representative if applicable, who in the reasonable opinion of the Contractor;
(a) Persists in any misconduct or lack of care,
(b) Carries out duties incompletely or negligently
(c) Fails to conform with any provisions of the Subcontract

This notice is served under Conditions of Subcontract clause 14.9.3 (a),( b) and (c). You are obliged to
take this letter as formal notification of our intention to enforce Clause 14.9.3 of the Sub-Contract
Agreement, to instruct the permanent removal from site of the abovementioned personnel.
Subsequently, in pursuant to the Clause 14.9.4, which specifies that "immediately following such
removal, the Subcontractor shall then appoint a suitable replacement". Accordingly, you are hereby
instructed to adhere to the above condition without any delay, to submit the CV of a suitable qualified
replacement for our review and approval in accordance with such Clause.
Subject: RE: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Further to the receipt of letter (1) regarding the Subcontractor's schedule for the forecast submission of
as built drawings, the Contractor refers the Subcontractor to the attached email correspondence
whereby the Engineer confirmed that the 200 no. as-built drawings submitted by the Subcontractor
have been assigned a Code-1 for CAD compliance.
The Contractor is aware of the delays being currently incurred by the Design Consultant in returning the
Subcontractor's submitted as-built drawings; yet, the Contractor further notes that the Subcontractor
shall not withhold all other submittals on this basis. Moreover, there is no reason why the Subcontractor
should refuse to furnish the Contractor with the schedule of forecast as-built submissions which has
been requested by the Contractor in numerous occasions.
The Contractor reiterates therefore its request that a schedule of forecast as-built submissions is
provided by the Subcontractor without further delay.
Subject: Request for Confirmation of Variation Order for Added Clean Outs in RFI 11594
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's reply to RFI 11594 wherein the Design Consultant requested
coordinated
layouts/plans to be reviewed with ADM for sign-off, please refer to the attached drawings signed by
ADM
showing the locations of the clean-outs.
We note that the additional cleanouts due to the offset in the riser routing (point #2 of the RFI) are not
shown in the latest or previous revisions of the relevant IFC plans (refer to attachments).
We consic{er the Engineer has issued instructions constituting a Variation which are not in the form of,
or
which have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract (COC) clause 20.1.4 (b), please provide a formal confirmation
of
Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to COC
11.3.3. and 20.1.1 (a).
In the event the Engineer does not take the above Contract required actions then in accordance with
COC

clause 20.1.5 the Contractor would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the above
described Variation. Should this materialise then the Employer shall be solely responsible for all
consequential impacts due to late or untimely confirmations.
Kindly be guided accordingly.

Subject: Request for Confirmation of Variation Order for Electrical Closets without Smoke
Detectors (RFEI/0401/0618)
Dear Sir,
With reference to your letter (3) above please be advised that the information, comments, clarifications
and/or instructions contained therein (albeit not properly set out as IFC) constitute an instruction of
Variation.
The Engineer's response to RFEI/0401/0618 requires 38 additional smoke detectors in various Electrical
Closets as set out in the schedule provided (ARUP File Note ref. 122222/SF/MEP/074 Electrical closets
that require smoke detectors).
Arup's letter reference 122222/SL/0890 dated 30 March 2017 (copy enclosed for reference as
Attachment
A), expressly states that "The originai/FC showed sprinklers only which is permitted by code but does
not provide a room address at the fire alarm panel, in Bulletin 134" whereby "at the request of ADAC
Operations, smoke detectors were added to small individual rooms such as electrical closets ... "
For the avoidance of any doubt, the Engineer remains responsible for setting out the requirements in a
clear and unambiguous without resorting to misrepresentations of hard facts by reference to "design
intents." Had those intents been so clearly set out in Bulletin 134 documents in the first instance, there
would not have been any need to provide a table to set out the additional requirements.
In addition, please be advised that most of these rooms have already been constructed. As a result this
late change will cause abortive Works and significant delays to the Electrical closets which will in turn
delay the Works.
We consider the Engineer has issued instructions constituting a Variation which are not in the form of,
or which have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract (COC) clause 20.1.4 (b), please provide a formal confirmation
of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to
COC 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a).
In the event the Engineer does not take the above Contract required actions then in accordance with
COC clause 20.1.5 the ·contractor would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the above
described Variation. Should this materialise then the Employer shall be solely responsible for all
consequential impacts due to late or untimely confirmations.
Kindly be guided accordingly
Yours faithfully
Subject:

Re: Determination of Prolongation Costs

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (3) above wherein you have requested an
approval/determination of your prolongation costs submissions as “On-Account’ payment. As discussed
previously via our letter reference (2) above, we reiterate that our determination of your prolongation
costs submissions and the Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion is subject to the Engineer’s
determination. We assure you that we are pursuing an expeditious response from the Engineer for this
matter pursuant to Clause 11.4 [Determinations].
However, despite failure to get a response from the Engineer regarding its determination, please be
reminded that we have taken a proactive decision to support you financially as demonstrated below, by
the release of “On-Account” payments as follows:
PC
Month Item Description
Amount
Remark
25.1 February 2018 Payment on Account
500,000.00
Paid
26.1 March 2018
Payment on Account
500,000.00
Paid
TBC
April 2018
Payment on Account
500,000.00
To be paid
TBC
May 2018
Payment on Account
500,000.00
To be paid
Total Amount
2,000,000.00
In addition, we have requested you via our letter reference (2) to submit all outstanding detailed
substantiation. For ease of reference you are reminded once again that you are expected to comply with
the following:
1.
Submit a detailed Time Impact Analysis pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] for each
delay event;
2.
Resubmit your monthly prolongation costs in the form of a Claim in line with Clauses 16.5
[Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion] and 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims];
3.
Ensure the format, contents and structure of your Submission are prepared and provided in an
acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: Pier 1 Obstructions By Others – Disruption Notice

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above, please find
enclosed our response in regards to your concerns raised via your said letter. Please note that all points
mentioned in your letter have been resolved.
In light of the above, please be informed that we consider this matter closed and that no delays have
been encountered.

This is for your information and records.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Re: Letters from the Project Director
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (7) above sent to our Board of Directors, wherein you have
stated your dissatisfaction in regards to our letters sent to you related to open work-fronts, delays and
outstanding Sub-subcontractor payments. We hereby respond as follows:
These direct communications to the Joint Venture’s Board Members without our knowledge are
hampering our efforts to ensure a coherent flow of information between the Parties. Please be informed
that you should diligently, at all times follow the Subcontract Agreement’s Protocol in regards to
communication. This type of behavior is totally unacceptable and you are hereby informed that all the
communications regarding the Subcontract should be conducted directly through us. Please note that
such direct communication on any issue related to the Subcontract is considered as a general breach of
the Subcontract Agreement. Failure to comply with the above may prejudice both your entitlement in
any matter and our opportunity to investigate and take appropriate action for any matter accordingly,
related to the Subcontract.
In regards to your first point, where you have stated that our letters-notifications reference (1 & 3)
“contain wild inaccuracies”, we inform you that our said letters have been prepared with due diligence
after discussion with our construction and upper management staff and are presenting the actual facts
on site. Moreover, we refer to your comment made about “[…] our attempt to invent non-existent
evidence […]” and we hereby assure you that there is no such attempt as stated in your letter, but our
notifications are to ensure that actions are taken on site, to ensure the smooth progression and
completion of the Subcontract Works. We can also confirm that we have received your response
referenced (6) above to our letters reference (1 & 3) as stated in your letter, which will be replied in
detail in due time. However, your response reference (6) to both of our letters, does not provide clarity
and/or resolution, but it is an admittance that there are indeed enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed with your Works. In our letter reference (3) we have used your own submitted progress report
as of 22nd February 2018 to extract the information for the available work-fronts.
Furthermore, we acknowledge your contractual right to advise us of any (if any) circumstances causing
delays; however, you also have the contractual responsibility to comply with the conditions of the
Subcontract and ensure that there are available resources on-site, all mitigation measures have been
taken and Works are progressing without delay and are completed on time. Once again we inform you
that we have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the works and you have the obligation to

ensure for the same. We also inform you in regards to your comments that our letters “contained no
photographic evidence”, that our obligation is to inform you about the available work-fronts and your
responsibility and obligation is to act upon and proceed accordingly.
In respect to your points regarding the outstanding payments of the Sub-subcontractor M/s Plus Paint,
you seem in your letter reference (7) to have overlooked our letter reference (5) above which is a
continuation to our letter reference (2), wherein we have requested you to provide some additional
information in an effort to provide clarity and resolve this matter amicably. You have stated that a
response has been provided “clearly setting out” your position and presenting the reasons for
withholding such amount to the Sub-subcontractor. However, with our letter referenced (5) which you
disregarded, we have in detail requested specific information to be provided in regards to the financial
status of M/S Plus Paint, which is yet to be provided. We assure you that we have used our rights
derived from the Subcontract to make certain that the Works progress smoothly without complications
and in no way you have been “threatened” as stated in your letter. For the record, you have been
instructed to submit all reasonable evidence and all information/documents regarding the payment
status of M/S Plus Painting, which is still pending as stated above.
After reviewing the first paragraph of page two (2) of your letter, your intentions are becoming obvious
in respect to the content of your letter reference (7). Consequently, please be informed that to date you
have not submitted any Claim in line with the Subcontract Conditions. Moreover, you are also required
to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each
delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical
Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the Critical
Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your prolongation costs in
the form of a Claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract.
In addition to the above and as mentioned in previous correspondences, please be informed that the
Contractor’s Determination you seek, related to the prolongation costs and the Employer’s related
Variations is subject to the Engineer’s Assessment and Determination pursuant to Clauses 11.4.3 and
11.4.4 [Determinations] of the Subcontract. Consequently, a response will be provided once the
Engineer provides its Determination and/or a response for the same.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the above referenced correspondences, you
are hereby informed that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (3) above.
To elaborate on this matter, as per our aforementioned letter wherein we have already replied to your
points (1&2) referred in your letter referenced (4), we reiterate once again that the “Monthly Advance
Payments” (MAP) have no correlation with your prolongation cost submissions. To be clear, we have
released the MAP with the genuine intention to aid your cash flow and to prevent any financial
difficulties which you may have to ensure the completion of the Works, taking into consideration that
the Engineer is yet to approve your Prolongation Costs Submissions. However, despite our good efforts
to assist you financially, you have rejected it.
In regards to points (1&2) of your letter, we reiterate the conditions of the Subcontract under Clause
11.4.3 [Determinations] which state that “The Subcontractor agrees that where the Subcontract
provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to agree or determine any
matter, if the matter relates or pertains to a matter which the Contractor has referred to the Engineer
for agreement or determination pursuant to similar provisions under the main Contract, the Contractor
shall be entitled, but not obliged, to rely on the Engineer’s agreement or determination in respect of
such matter”.
Furthermore, Clause 11.4.4 specifies that “The Subcontractor agrees that where the Subcontract
provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to agree or determine any
matter, if the said matter is connected to a related matter under the Contract the Contractor is entitled
(but not obliged) to rely upon the Engineer’s agreement or determination, and if so advised the
Subcontractor shall be bound by and give effect to the Engineer’s agreement or determination, subject
to the provisions of clause 11.4.2”.
In light of the above, it is apparent that since your Prolongation Costs Submission is indeed subject to
the Engineer’s approval, we as the Contractor, contractually are not able to determine this matter prior
the Engineer’s determination and consequently not obligated to release any payments related to your
Prolongation Costs Submission. Please also be informed that we have not been issued any 'preliminary
determination' by the Engineer for any of the submissions made on behalf of our Subcontractors
Prolongation Costs.
In respect to your comment about a potential dispute, we reiterate that the Subcontract Agreement is
clear as to the procedures in place which need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance
of a Dispute Notice. Accordingly, you are required to give a notice (a Dispute Notice) of the dispute and
thereafter enter into discussions with us in an attempt to settle the dispute. In the event we could not
amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause
27.3.2 [Dispute Resolution].
We hope that the above clarifies our position in the matter.
Yours faithfully,

Subject Roofing Works
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) regarding the Roof Site Hose Testing Requirements.
Upon review of the Remaining Quantities Table provided in your correspondence (1) it is evident that
there has been no major progress from your Subcontractors. We record that not a single Pier,
Gatehouse, Wrapper of CP Roof including any of the skylights and soffits has been completed as of the
date of this letter. The Contractor missed the Amendment 7 milestone number B3 which was to
complete the lnfill skylights within the central processor by 31 March 2018 and as summarized in our
correspondence (5).
Furthermore, we disagree with the Contractor's contention that the Engineer has misinterpreted the
specifications regarding the surveys for the gutters. We remind the Contractor that the Engineer's
inspections shall not be restricted to the agreed inspection points. These inspections shall monitor the
on-going works to identify possible areas of noncompliance before the mandatory inspection points are
reached. As you are aware, a non-conformance exists when material and equipment, documentation or
construction does not comply with the requirements of the Contract. The Contractor shall check the
position of all elements of the building structure and other work that interfaces with the Works to verify
compliance with the Contract Documents. ·
It is therefore the Contractor's obligation to construct the Works in accordance with the Contract and
the Contractor is requested to provide his recovery plan to overcome shortfalls in progress within one
week upon receipt of this letter.
Subject:Commercial Issues on Total Costs Incurred
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the subject matter and we hereby instruct you to address the following
commercial issues;
1.
AGC Site Presence of Commercial Staff – Please be advised that we need your commercial
representatives to be relocated to the site for the remainder of your works and your Commercial
Manager to attend weekly meetings.
2.
AGC to reconcile costs – You are required to reconcile the historical costs against packages thus
Pre-October 2017 and other submissions thereafter.
3.
Application format – We shall issue in due course the Application Format for material
submissions (split into 20%/60%/20%) that includes 5% retention, 5% WIR & 5% BIM contribution on the
summary page.
4.
Proforma Invoice – You must place T-number references on all proforma invoices for ease of
reference.
5.
Material requisitions – All requesters to place T-numbers on the requisition notes.

Please note that all of the above issues need to be addressed within seven (7) days of receipt of this
letter.
We look forward to your confirmation on the above and your continued support in this regard.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the above referenced correspondences, you
are hereby informed that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (3) above.
In regards to your comment about a potential dispute, we reiterate that the Subcontract Agreement is
clear as to the procedures in place which need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance
of a Dispute Notice. Accordingly, you are required to give a notice (a Dispute Notice) of the dispute and
thereafter enter into discussions with us in an attempt to settle the dispute. In the event we could not
amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause
27.3.2 [Dispute Resolution]. Note that arbitration is not an economic form of dispute resolution, in
which both Parties are incurring substantial legal and specialist fees.
We hope that the above clarifies our position in the matter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Notification of Damages during the Installation of Stainless Steel Skirting in Gatehouses 45, Pier
4, Level 2.0
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter (1) referenced above, wherein you have reported that a damage has
been caused as per the subject matter by another Subcontractor. After reviewing your letter, we hereby
notify you that the information provided to date requires further substantiation to enable us to evaluate
the damage appropriately. Therefore, you are kindly requested to submit a thorough investigation
providing adequate evidence of the responsible Subcontractor, which has allegedly caused the damages.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings

Dear Sir,
Further to the referred letters and exchanged emails regarding the above subject, this is to record our
receipt of your confirmation as per the attached email correspondence, regarding the enclosed As-Built
Drawing Submission Schedule. Please be informed that the same has been incorporated in the Project
As-Built Drawing Submission Schedule.
In light of the above, your adherence to the Schedule is expected.
Should any valid reason, causing deviation from the scheduled dates arise in the future, you are kindly
requested to submit a justification and a revised schedule as soon as the deviation is noticed by your
project team.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Delay Notice– Delays at Pier 4 Gatehouse 43 Delay

Dear Sir,
We refer to above-mentioned subject matter and record your persistent failure in the completion of
your works in a timely manner as required. In addition, we hereby inform you about our concern over
the ongoing site delays caused by you, which have been notified to you numerous times via
correspondences including but not limited to the above references. We also put on record once again
your lack of manpower which is affecting the works and delaying other activities and has to be resolved
immediately. We regret to notice that despite our instructions and notifications, your performance has
not improved and no measures have been taken to mitigate your delays.
Once more, we point out your failure to meet your Contractual Obligations which consequently affects
our obligations under the Contract. Therefore, you are instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions
of the Contractor] to take immediate action for the following:
Location
Status
Pier 4 - Gatehouse 43 You are strictly instructed to comply with the following:
•
Provide approved Material Inspection Requests (MIR’s) for all materials delivered to site to date;
•
Deliver shop drawings;
•
Submit your Program of Works;
•
Deliver all outstanding materials;
•
Complete works in mock up;
•
Ensure all operators and all doors with cladding, glass and hardware are installed, fully
functioning, and with approved WIR’s. Be informed that Testing and Commissioning will begin on April
15.

You are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in order to complete the
aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with mitigation measures to recover
the delays caused by you due to incomplete works.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Back Charge - Rectification of Damaged Ceiling Works - Various levels & locations ·
Dear Sir,
We enclose Cloisall's document submittal reference: (1) & (2) above, whereby it has notified its
intention to claim from us, the additional cost and time attributable to the damage to its installed
Ceiling, caused by Anel.
According to Cloisall, the claimed amount of its ROM-7, which we have notified to you via our letter
reference (3) above, shall be superseded by the amount of the enclosed ROM-13.
ROM- 07 (previously sent amount} ROM-13 (revised amount)
AED 97,945.26 AED 52,518.64
In this regard, we write to notify Anel, pursuant to Sub-Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claim] and 12.12
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the Conditions of Subcontract, we shall recover from
Anel, the subject cost including TCAJV's OHP etc. plus any other Cost related to the rectification of
aforementioned damage. The total assessed cost will be available to you for your records, once it is
finalised.
Yours truly,
Subject Bulletin Change Control Cut-off 6 and Cut-off 7-RFVO SUbmiSsion
Dear Sir,
With reference to the abovementioned subject, please find attached Bulletin Change Controi 1Cut-off 6
and <Cut-off7.
We request you to follow the .procedure as discussed and illustrated in the Variation Procedure Meeting
and· require your response within seven days upon receipt of this letter. Otherwise, please advise in
return your proposed dates of submission.
You are required to .price the variation and submit the required substantiation documents as indicated
in the Bulletin Change ·Control Procedure.

Your full cooperation to carry out ·the above is required: in order to move further with the variation
submission to the Employer and ·for· the approval of the same at the earliest.
Yours truly,
Subject: Notice of Delay for Long Overdue Code-3 Shop Drawings Re-Submission for Typical layout Plans,
SS Skirting (Gate House Code E & F)
Dear Sir,
Despite our assistance to AIG to develop proper shop drawings, as acknowledged by your letter
MFAD/TCA/JA/393/2016 30 October 2016, AIG have failed to respond. The Gate House skirting drawings
are still under Code 3 since 07 October 2016. We previously recorded our concerns regarding delays in
shop drawing submittals in our letter ref. MTB/TCA/AIG/L/000422 date 16 October 2016.
Moreover, it is our experience that AIG shop drawings are frequently of poor quality. The standard of
drawing is far from best practice as required by Clause 12.1.6 (k) of the Sub-Contractor contract
conditions
and the quality assurance in 12.15. The repeatedly poor quality negatively impacts the project program .
Any costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by TCA-JV and/or other Subcontractors in connection with
your delays to the above or the negative impact(s) that may result from this delay shall be your sole
responsibility for both cost and time.
Failure to fulfill your contractual obligations under the Subcontract shall be recovered from your
account
in accordance with the Subcontract Terms and Conditions. In case of further non-performance, we will
withhold payments for this purpose.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Delay Notice - Outstanding works at LB2/LB1

Dear Sir,
We refer to the above-mentioned subject matter and record your persistent failure in the completion of
your works in a timely manner as required and inform you about our concern over the ongoing site
delays caused by you, which have been notified to you numerous times. We also put on record once
again that you have failed your Contractual Obligations to manage your works which consequently puts
the Project's Milestones at risk.
In light of the above, be informed that the following works need your urgent attention:

Location
Status

LB2/LB1
Find enclosed photographic evidence showing outstanding works at LB2/LB1 areas which are delaying
the completion of the rooms. You are therefore instructed to complete and finish the outstanding works
immediately.

You are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in order to complete the
aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with mitigation measures to recover
the delays caused by you due to the incomplete works.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Subcontractor's Direct Communication with Employer and Engineer

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we write to notify you that it has come to our attention that your
personnel has on numerous occasions engaged in direct communication with the Employer and/or the
Engineer without our attendance and knowledge. These direct communications without our knowledge
are hampering our efforts to ensure a coherent flow of information between the Parties. Please be
informed that you should diligently, at all times, follow the Project’s Protocol in regards to
communication.
This type of behavior is totally unacceptable and we inform you that all the communications regarding
the Subcontract should either be conducted directly through us or include our personnel regardless of
the importance of communication. Please note that such direct communications between you and the
Employer and/or the Engineer on any issue related to the Subcontract is considered a breach of the
Subcontract Agreement pursuant to 14.9.3 [Subcontractor’s Personnel] and 9.18.1 [Independent
Subcontractor] which state that “The Subcontractor shall act as an independent contractor in
performing the Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its employees and all Subsubcontractors and shall in no case represent, or be the agent of, the Contractor or act in the
Contractor’s name without the prior written consent of the Contractor”.

In line with the aforementioned conditions, you are hereby reminded to strictly adhere to the
Subcontract's communication protocol and refrain from making such direct communication to the
Employer and/or their representatives in the future.
Moreover, we hereby hold you liable for any cost and/or time impact that is incurred by us due to these
direct communications of your representatives with the Employer and/or the Engineer.
This matter requires your utmost compliance and adherence.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Notice to Refrain for Subcontractor Direct Communication to Employer/Engineer
Dear Sirs,
In reference to the above mentioned subject we hereby advise the Subcontractor/s to diligently
follow the Project Protocol in regards to the flow of documents and communication concerning
the above mentioned project.
Pursuant to Sub Clause 9.18.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract embodied in the above
mentioned Letter of award "The Subcontractor shall act as an independent contractor in
performing the Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its employees and all
Subsubcontractors
and shall in no case represent, or be the agent of, the Contractor or act in the
Contractor's name without the prior written consent of the Contractor."
As in line with the above mentioned conditions, you are instructed to refrain for any direct
communication to the Employer/Engineer regarding any project related matters. Any
subcontractor's procedure for acquiring contract documents clarification, approvals, etc. must all
be submitted to the Main Contractor only.
If the Subcontractor fails to conform to the above provisions of the Subcontract, the Contractor
may require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed) any key personnel or any
other person employed on the Site or Subcontract Works, including the Subcontractor's
Representative if applicable Pursuant to sub-clause 14.9 .3 of the aforementioned Conditions of
subcontract.
Moreover, we hereby hold the Subcontractor liable for any cost and I or time impact that is
incurred by the Main Contractor due to these direct communications of the Subcontractor with
the Employer/Engineer.
Please be guided accordingly.
Subject :
Notice of Backcharge – Cementitious Fireproofing Works - (South Retail Cabins Level 3.1
and Central Pavilion Level 3.1)
Dear Sir,

We write with reference to the aforementioned subject due to your delays in various areas which has a
direct impact on the fire proofing works that is within your scope of works.
Therefore, due to the urgency of the matter and your failure to start the fireproofing applications, we
have arranged specialist applicator(s) to carry out the Cementitious Fireproofing application in South
Retail Cabins Level 3.1 and Central Pavilion Level 3.1.
This notice has been issued pursuant to Conditions of Subcontract clauses including but not limited to
10.3.3 and 10.3.1 due to your failure to start the Cementitious Fireproofing Works despite our
continuous reminders and notifications that have been sent to you.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you to back charge for the above works including as well as any relevant
activity from your account. Such amount as well as our 15% administrative fee and overhead that shall
be deducted from your payment upon receipt of the complete fireproofing application cost.
Moreover, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities shall be solely
your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 and 16.6.1.
This is for your information and future reference.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/SMITH/L/000271 dated 17-Jan-18, regarding as-built drawing
schedule, we regret to note that your as-built drawing submission schedule is yet to be received.
In the absence of your response, with reference to the Target As-bu ilt Drawing Schedule Rev 02.1
issued
to yourselves under above mentioned TCAJV ietter, please be reminded that the scheduled dates are
overdue.
Moreover. it has been observed that your submission of as-built drawings of Pier 4 & Pier 3 have current
ly
become critical for the Project Handing Over.
As per the Programme Rev. 10.4 and Project Close-out Forecasting Principle including As-built BIM
Model
submission and approval durations, final As-built Drawing submissions may not exceed the following
latest
dates for each stage of the building completion:
• Pier 4 -- 03 May 2018,
• Pier 3 -- 21 Jun 2018,
• Pier 1 -- 12 Aug 2018,
• Pier 2 -- 21 Sep 2018,
• CP -- 16 Jan 2019 .
Since the submission and approval of the handing over documentation is mandatory for obtaining the

taking over certificate for each completion stage of the project, you are required to take the following
necessary actions with immediat e effect:
a) Provide mitigation plan (revised forecast dates) for all delayed as-built drawings.
b) Provide revised submission plan for all balance as-built drawings in line with planned construction
completion dates.
c) Submit all balance as-built drawings for approval in an expeditious manner.
d) Resubmit any Code 3 or Code 4 as-built drawings if applicable.
e) Ensure compliance with CADD Manual Rev. 4 dated January 2012, Specifications Book 23,
Appendix B.
Subject AMC Area (Office Building) Outstanding & Interface Works Completion
Dear Sir,
Further to the above referenced letter (1) and (2) the Engineer would like to advise the Contractor that
ARCO Interiors are progressing with their fit out installation works and in order not to adversely impact
their progress we urge the Contractor to complete all outstanding and incomplete works in this Third
Party, AMC area, Office Building L3.1, and ensure the completion of the snag and de-snag WIR process.
The Engineer also highlights that the dates agreed in the coordination workshop on 27 February 2018
between ARCO and the Contractor in the presence of the Engineer, regarding the completion dates of
the interface services have been not been met despite the Contractor's commitment.
The Engineer requests the Contractor to provide its completion strategy for the outstanding and
interface works within the next 5 working days, upon receipt of this letter.
Your urgent action in this matter is appreciated
Yours faithfully,
Subject Handed Over MEP Services (AMC Serving and Passing Through MEP Services)
Damaged I Removed by Other Contractors
Dear Sir,
Further to the above referenced letter the Engineer would like to clarify and record that the MEP
services serving and passing through the AMC area has not been handed over to the Employer and
remain the responsibility of the Contractor under its scope until a Taking Over Certificate is issued by
the Employer for the substantial completion of the works.
The Engineer has received the Contractor's damage report unofficially via email on 12 March 2018
with the understanding of an official submission. This will enable us to notify the responsible
Contractor accordingly. We confirm that the said advance damage report copy received is currently
being reviewed.
The Engineer will do the necessary to secure the coordination between the Contractor and ARCO
Interiors {Fit Out Contractor) to resolve and finalize the situation.
The Contractor is therefore requested to submit the official damage report with all associated costs.

Subject Shop Drawings Classification and As-Built Drawings Statistics
Dear Sir,
Please be informed that the content of the submitted Transmittal (1) has been rejected by the
Employer for the following reasons which have been communicated to the Contractor via Email and
meetings:
1. In some cases, the drawings categorization is misleading resulting in incorrect allocation (AsBuilt
vs . Shop Drawings).
2. Some drawings sets have not been produced as part of the Shop Drawings but are required as
As-Built (e.g GA plans, sections, elevations).
3. Drawings scales missing from drawings register.
In addition to the above, the Contractor shall submit the final As-Built register based on the agreed
categories which have been sent to the Contractor on 10 January 2018 through El-722 (2) for approval.
Yours faithfully
Subject:
Notification of Fibrex Claim- Removal of GRC Panels due to AI Ghurair's
Incorrect Surveys to Fins
Dear Sir,
Following our letter reference (1) above and numerous previous correspondences referenced therein
regarding the “Removal & Reinstallation of GRC Slab Edge Panels” by M/S Fibrex due to your incorrect
surveys, we hereby enclose M/S Fibrex updated claim that will be backcharged to your account
accordingly pursuant to Clause 10.3 [Contractor’s Claim].
Furthermore, we record your refusal to accept this backcharge as stated in your previous
correspondences, which evidently has not yet been substantiated by you. Consequently, we are taking
this opportunity to highlight once again, that to date you have failed to submit any detailed response to
substantiate your position in respect to your refusal. We point out once more that all previous letters
received from you are very generic and are lacking of any reference to the Subcontract Conditions.
In light of the above, we hereby enclose M/S Fibrex claim which is self-explanatory. To be more specific
M/S Fibrex claim consists of Part A - Removal & Reinstallation (Attachment 1) and Part B - Idle
Manpower (Attachment 2) which is AED 356,760.50 and AED 437,523.25 respectively, totaling to AED
794,283.75 which will be backcharged to you accordingly.
This is for your utmost attention, information and records.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Fibrex Claim - Removal of GRC Panels due to Incorrect Surveys to Fins

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (12) above regarding the aforesaid subject.
However the
correct subject should have been "Notification of Fibrex Claim- Removal of GRC Panels due to AI
Ghurair's
Incorrect Surveys to Fins" not "Non-Conformance Installation of Frameless Glass Screens, Glass Fins and
Associated Work".
Please note that JV letter referenced in (7) was issued based on a construction meeting in which both
AGCA
and FIBREX agreed to do modifications in their works. To date you have failed to provide a
response/reply to
the meeting notes provided via email.
In letter referenced (8), you replied to Fibrex' initial claim with a statement; 'We are currently preparing
our
detailed response to this subject and will notify you in due course'. To date, you have failed to provide
such
detailed response.
In letter referenced (10), even though you are trying to provide a reply to the Engineer's letter provided
you
with letter referenced (4), your reply is very generic and not addressing the non-conformance issues
listed. A
more detailed response is still expected from you.
You are reminded to be conversant with Clause of the Conditions of the Subcontract • 8.1.4 The
Subcontractor shall not be excused from performing its duties and obligations under the
Subcontract and its liability for any act, omission, breach, negligence or other default shall not be
waived, negated or diminished in any way by any failure an the part of the Contractor or any of the
persons referred to in this clause 8.1 to carry out and complete any of the tasks referred to in clause
8.1 either properly or at all or as a consequence of any failure to discourage, withhold this approval
of/or consent to or object to whatever may be proposed or done by the Subcontractor .
Lastly, we put it on record that it is taking two (2) or more months to reply to our letters and confusing
different subjects which is not acceptable. Most of these raised issues are critically important for the
delivery
of the project.
You are again reminded that until this date no explanation has been provided by yourselves regarding
your
defense I counter claim on this issue and we will no longer accept your simplistic letter replies.
Therefore this
letter serves as a further notice that we will be recovering the costs as per Fibrex Claim starting from the
latest
Payment Certificate from the date of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Reply letter- Non-Conformance Installation of Frameless Glass Screen, Glass Fins
Dear Sir,
and Associated Works
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (9} above regarding your reply to TCA JV letter
referenced (5}.
However, kindly note that the tolerance of the glass fabrication/installation is 1mm, where the As-built
is
showing the fins' locations deviated from the models. At the time of installation most of the shop
drawings for
this area were code 3, which makes any BIM codes void as models should be updated to follow code 3
comments.
As you were aware that only approved and coordinated shop drawings are to be used for fabrication
and any
site installation. Therefore you went ahead with manufacturing and installation at your own risk.
The Engineer's letter that was conveyed to you through TCA JV letter referenced (5} above, clearly
observed
in his report that your site installation is different as compared to the shop drawings, thus making shop
drawings and models obsolete, until AGCA proceed to the remedial works.
The continuous negligence of not following the approved shop drawings on site installations is the basis
of this
non-conformance.
In addition, please note that at the attached study which is represents the comparison between the
working
points from the model and the IFC, the X values most of them are matching or within tolerance however
the
site as-built was wrongly installed which led AGCA to rectify. You are hereby reminded of your
obligations as set out under the Subcontract which include, Subcontract
Clause 16.1.1 provides that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due expedition and
without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV or Other
Subcontractors.
Moreover, Subcontract, Clause 16.6.1 provides that:
((If the Subcontractor fails to comply with the approved Subcontract Programme, the Subcontractor
shall
without limitation indemnify and hold the Contractor harmless against and from the costs, losses and
expenses
( ... ) incurred by the Contractor in connection with the Subcontractor's delays {"Contractor Delay
Costs").
Contractor Delay Costs incurred by the Contractor shall be quantified by the Contractor at the time of
such

losses and claimed under clause 10.3 {Subcontractor's Claims). These costs and losses shall be
recoverable by
the Contractor against the Subcontractor as compensation for the losses suffered by the Contractor as a
result
of the Subcontractor's delay or non-compliance with the approved Subcontract Programme and
irrespective of
whether or not the Subcontractor's delay or non-compliance results in the Contractor incurring liability
for
delay damages to the Employer under the Contract."
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor Is
arising as
a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in accordance with
the
Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Back Charge Notice- Water Leakage at Zone 2 FOH
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above subject for your attention.
Reply Required: Yes I Ne
Further to our observation with regards to the above subject which happened fast 09 March 2018, the
FCU
equipment at Zone 2 FOH 'have caused condensate leak damaging the ceilings below. As explained in
the email
correspondences attached herein, the cause of this leak is due to running chilled water in FCU unit
wherein the condensate water dripping in t'he drip tr:ays overflow causing it to drip directly on ceiling
pane.ls.
The accumulation of condensate water was caused by open FCU valves letting the chilled water flow
while
the FCU and condensate drainage pump 'is not in operation.
Due to the above explanation, we regret to lnform you that you have failed to take necessary preventive
action with regards to the operation of your equipment. Accordingly, you are requested to review and
provide your explanation to the incident to enable our assessment of the same. This notice is issued
according to Conditions of Subcontract 10.3.3., which specifies Contractor's Claims and Clause 12.12.4,
which
specifies the Subcontractor shaH be liable to the Contractor or other Subcontractors for the foss and
damages
due to your action.
We hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the delays from your account should you fail to
provide

satisfactory explanation. Such amount shalf be deducted from your payment in due course in order to
recover the reinstatement cost.
Should you have further queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Installation of Glass Fin, GRC Steel Brackets
Dear Sir,
We refer to the accompanied surveillance inspection photos included in Appendix A and the list of issues
that require your immediate attention as follows:
1. Unacceptable installation of glass screen brackets as packing of brackets not comply with the
approved shop drawings.
2. Improper rectification of concrete slab.
3. Proceeding with the subsequent installation without securing approvals on mockups from the
Engineer.
4. Improper installation of insulation for LB2 fire rated screens steelwork.
5. Incorrect erection and lack of protection of erected steelwork which resulted in damages to the
intumescent paint of the fire rated screens steelwork.
6. Proceeding with installation works without approved material inspection requests (MIRs).
Please be reminded that the examination of available areas for readiness to proceed with the
installation
should be conducted with all parties attending including you installer as to validat ed compliance with
the
installation tolerances requirements and other similarly related conditions that may compromise the
works.
All concrete slab surfaces should be rectified and installation may proceed only after all identified
deficiencies have been corrected.
We request that you propose the necessary remedial measures to rectify the non-conforming works
being
identified. You are requested as a matter of urgency to address all outstanding concerns on the
installation
of frameless glass screens, glass fins and associated work to conform to specification and approved
method statement.
We would record here that should you not take any further actions to remedy these non-conformities
then
you are proceeding with these works at your own risk and we therefore advise that any Employer
actions
that maybe necessitated in order to correct and remedy these non-conformities shall be borne by you
and
the resulting delays due to any re-work shall be at your account with respect to any additional cost or
time.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Updated Fibrex Claim- Removal of GRC Panels due to AI Ghurair's Incorrect Surveys to Fins
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced in {3) above, we enclose herewith the "Updated Fibrex Claim for the
Removal
& Reinstallation of GRC Slab Edge Panels" in various Zones in the sum of AED 1,084,254.00 that will be
backcharged
to your account accordingly.
Please be advised that all necessary breakdown and substantiation regarding this claim will be
forwarded to
your attention upon receipt of the same from Fibrex LLC.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully
Subject:

Extension to the Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claims

Dear Sir,
We hereby write with reference to Chadwick Technology L.L.C. letters referred to above, and in
particular, to letter reference ADIA-NG-0390 dated 21 February 2018 entitled “Extension to the
Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claim – Submission no. 4” wherein Chadwick
claim for an Extension of Time (EoT) of 1,230 days to the Works along with financial compensation in
amount of AED 149,253,815 for interim prolongation costs associated with alleged delay events up to
28th September 2017.
In Chadwick’s narrative, Chadwick contends that it was prevented from starting the roofing works at the
north‐west section of the Main Roof (gridline RP5 to RP0) in line with the original plan of the approved
Subcontract Programme. Chadwick also contends that it was the Contractor’s failure to provide access
to the steel structures in accordance with Appendix 5.A of Schedule 10 and the approved Subcontract
Programme, and failure to complete the necessary steel purlin modifications to kitchen exhaust towers,
specifically at gridlines RP5‐RP4, and the Contractor’s subsequent instruction to withhold decking works
at gridline RP2‐RP0, all at the Main Roof. This, Chadwick claims, resulted in 1,230 days critical delay as of
the cut‐off date of 28th September 2017.
Chadwick follows by stating in the Executive Summary of its claim that it incurred critical delay and
disruption to its Subcontract Time for Completion and its Subcontract Programme as a result of these
delay events and is therefore entitled to an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion,
additional Costs, Loss and Expense and the right to Adjustment to the Subcontract Price. The claim
submission relies on these delay events affecting the Central Processor (CP) Area, with the main driver
of delay being the delayed access to the CP’s Main Roof.

Moreover, Chadwick asserts and considers in its claim submission that the delayed access to the Central
Processor (CP) Area is a Contractor Culpable Event. Chadwick further contends it was the Contractor
who failed in its’ obligation to provide access to the Subcontractor in accordance with Schedule 10 and
the approved Baseline Rev. 1 Subcontract Programme and Clause 10.1.
TCA-JV hereby notes that Chadwick’s previous Extension of Time (ADIA-NG-0355 dated (3rd September
2017) was for 1,040 days with interim prolongation costs claimed AED 126,903,815.00 for delay events
up to 29th June 2017 and anticipated the Completion Date with the requested extension of time as 11th
August 2018.
It is TCA-JV’s view that Chadwick Technology has failed in its various claim submissions to prove its
compliance with the Subcontract's contractual requirements as listed below. Should Chadwick believe
that this is not the case then TCA-JV welcome a response from Chadwick setting out the facts and
demonstrating that Chadwick has complied with its necessary obligations under the Subcontract.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and on a without prejudice basis, TCA-JV herewith comment below on
the substantive issues in relation to the claims submitted;
EoT Claim Comments;
We hereby note the following comments on your claim for extension of time that renders it incomplete,
non-compliant and currently unacceptable, and request that Chadwick to revise its’ submission in light
of the said comments:
Chadwick’s Programme used in the Delay Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on a programme other than the approved baseline programme, and
other than the programme which was amended by Chadwick and based on their request and later on
agreed by TCA-JV to correct the scheduling anomalies that were present on Chadwick’s baseline
programme as per Appendices.
The subcontract allows for Schedule changes provided that a compelling reason for such change is
present and justifiable (such as an incorrect links, or other major flaws), and conditions the approval of
such changes by the second party in order to accept the use of such changed programme. Instead,
Chadwick’s approach in its current delay analysis is to keep introducing changes to the programme logic,
durations and dates across each claim window in a compounded manner, which is not an acceptable
practice, neither industry wise or contractually.
Developing a claim on a programme that is constantly changing logic at each time window without any
support as to why a logic change was introduced in a claim-window (which is what Chadwick has
conducted), and without prior consent from TCA-JV, renders Chadwick’s delay analysis to be non-

credible. It lacks a common base with its’ previous analysis windows and subsequently renders the
outcome to be invalid.
We also note Chadwick’s failure to follow TCA-JV’s revised programme under the HoA Agreement
(Revision 6 Programme) when Chadwick was instructed to do so (please refer to JV’s letter 17th March
2015 reference MTB/TCA/CHADWICK/L/000205) and Chadwick’s failure to provide a revised programme
of its own that copes with an updated project delivery strategy which was instructed by the Employer
and fully communicated across the entire project, and which was followed by all parties concerned.
This particular case shall be viewed in line with the contractual sub-clauses 16.3.5 and 16.5.9.
Periods and Method used to conduct Chadwick’s Time Impact Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on time windows of ‘three months’ which is larger than the
contractually stipulated ‘monthly’ intervals for interim claims, which, in addition for not being
contractually compliant, does not serve as a good representation to the overall performance of the
project as a whole during the claimed window(s).
It is also noted that the “FRAGNETS” used to describe the delay event is assuming the effects stretching
into unsubstantiated and assumed ‘future dates’ and thus creating an overly prospective impact that is
not being supported or proven to be of the factual case.
Despite Chadwick’s submission dates of these interim claims well beyond and after the delay fragnets, in
addition to the above, TCA-JV notes that the data records in Chadwick’s claim windows are not aligned
with the data records that Chadwick has reported / communicated in its weekly or monthly reports
under the same periods.
We also note other anomalies with Chadwick’s claim programme data and the progress trackers
Chadwick is reporting to the project team. In this regard, Chadwick is instructed to correct the duration
of its claim windows to fit the contractual stipulated time, and to employ the correct ‘Time Impact
Analysis’ approach, while maintaining to use the correct data records in its analysis programs as to avoid
to over-delay or stretch delay events.
Events used in Chadwick’s Claim:
Chadwick’s submitted extension of time, claims compensation for the entire project, whilst its analysis is
based on a fractional analysis that is restricted to a limited event namely ‘access delays’ in the ‘Central
Processor Roof Cladding’ areas only, whilst overlooking other events in the same area, and other events
that occurred in other project areas such as the Piers, Gatehouses, Wrappers, Infills and Skylights. In this
regard, such an abstract partial event claim made into a time window is deemed partial, incomplete and
unacceptable.

TCA-JV’s records indicate that other events in the Central Processor area, either Employer related, or
Subcontractor culpable related, were overlooked while certainly having an effect on the overall progress
and completion of the works. These events need to be incorporated into Chadwick’s analysis in order to
comprehensively allow TCA-JV to assess Chadwick’s entitlement for time and cost compensation.
Moreover, we also note that whilst the Central Processor areas were part of the initial Critical Path of
Chadwick’s approved baseline programme, other delays in other areas that happen to form a larger
percentage of the project workload rendered these areas to be critical as well, and by Chadwick
overlooking these events, their respective effects from its analysis is unacceptable as it deems the
outcome of Chadwick’s analysis to be limited, restricted, partial and incomplete.
Accordingly, Chadwick’s delay analysis needs to be revised and resubmitted as to include all known
events that affected all of the project areas of Chadwick’s scope of works, and caused by all parties, be it
Chadwick delays, Employer delays (Bulletins and Briefing Packs), Main Contractor delays, and/or other
Subcontractor delays. This is required in order to establish the net time and cost entitlement in a fair
and reasonable way to allow the parties to concentrate its efforts to draw to a net entitlement and fair
determination.
Chadwick’s Mitigation and Concurrency:
Chadwick’s extension of time requests and the associated delay analysis did not include any
consideration towards establishing mitigation measures, and it has failed to demonstrate concurrent
delays caused by Chadwick, despite both requirements being part of Chadwick’s contractual
requirement (refer you subcontract clauses and Particularly the Specification of “Program Project
Control Requirements”.)

Chadwick’s Mapping Notices against Delay Events:
Chadwick should accompany its’ time impact analysis submission with a detailed schedule of the delay
notifications that it has issued along with an allocation of the notification toward the event presented in
its’ EoT Submission. In addition, Chadwick needs to attach physical copies of the notifications
themselves to the submission.
Establishing Entitlement - The Relationship between Extension of Time and Prolongation Costs:
It is noted that entitlement to an extension of time does not automatically entitle the Subcontractor to
prolongation costs incurred due to the additional time required to complete the Works. The Subcontract

does not provide a direct link between an entitlement to an extension of time and the entitlement to
compensation for the additional time spent in completing the Works.
Despite this, Chadwick asserts an entitlement to additional payment for its prolongation and disruption
costs, pursuant to Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion] and 27.1
[Subcontractor's Claims]. These clauses do not, in fact, create any basis or grounds for additional
payment for prolongation and disruption costs as alleged. Clause 27.1 is a procedural clause concerning
the notification and submission of claims, and as such, Chadwick has so far, failed to establish any bona
fide basis or grounds for its claim. Accordingly, Chadwick must establish an entitlement to claim
additional payment for prolongation and disruption costs (or any other additional payment) by specific
reference to the Subcontract giving rise to an entitlement to an additional payment.
Upon review of Chadwick’s prolongation costs (ADIA-NG-0363 Dated 30.Sep.17) the costs submitted
should be actually incurred and calculated during the periods when the delaying events impacted the
progress of the Works, and under the various different locations of your works on site, not over the
extended duration at the end of the subcontract period. Accordingly, Chadwick’s entitlement to
additional or increased costs must be clearly linked to the actual delay event, in specifically affected
areas of the works on-site, and to the period where the actual delay was experienced.
Chadwick is thereby required to separate its resources and associated costs under prolongation to be
apportioned into the following sections of its scope of works, this to further compliment the individual
areas of its works which were, or may have been effected by different delaying events (not just relative
to Central Processor).
a.
b.
c.
d.

Central Processor
Piers & Gatehouses
Wrappers & Infill
Skylights

Upon review of Chadwick’s Staff Costs, Chadwick is further required to separate its staff resources and
associated costs under prolongation to be apportioned under the following criteria headings;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Indirect Staff
Direct Staff
Core Staff
Location Staff
Task Staff

(considered as prolongation)
(not considered as prolongation, i.e. – production related staff)
(general staff related to all the works & activities – full scope)
(specific to separate locations or sections of scope on site ‘a to d’)
(specific to individual tasks in separate locations on site)

In relation to the following heads of claim (1 & 2 below) which were submitted by Chadwick as separate
claimed amounts, these costs have not been substantiated in any format or quantitative manner.
Therefore, the JV cannot adequately assess these costs for there is currently nothing available to review
or assess. These costs are global and have no substantiated information provided to them to

demonstrate how they were calculated or justified as actual costs/claims incurred with relative
substantiation. Chadwick is to provide further substantiation in relation to these heads of claim if any
real assessment is to be carried out.
1.
2.

Disruption Costs
Escalation Costs

Chadwick’s claim fails to apply and link any purported costs to the periods where excusable and
compensable delays were actually experienced, instead referring to the total overrun period beyond the
Time for Completion (extended completion dates).
Once Chadwick establishes adequate entitlement to prolongation costs by virtue of an excusable and
compensable delay event, it is required to demonstrate that it actually suffered loss and/or expense
under such an event at the time the event occurred and under the specific location or section of works
on site.
For the avoidance of doubt, the above is not, of itself to be considered as an admission of any
entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or payment of additional Costs, nor does it
constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notification of Fibrex Claim- Removal of GRC Panels due to AI Ghurair's Incorrect Surveys to Fins
Dear Sir,
As advised earlier during meetings and emails attached hereto, we enclose herewith a claim from Fibrex
LLC
for the "Removal & Reinstallation of GRC Slab Edge Panels" in various Zones in the sum of AED
1,011,444.00
that will be back-charged to your account accordingly.
In order for you to proceed with rectification of these incorrect surveys, it was observed that a total
number
of 140 already completed GRC Slab Edge Panels by Fibrex LLC need dismantling and re-installation.
We have done our preliminary evaluation of this Claim and have requested breakdown and all necessary
substantiation from Fibrex LLC where upon receipt, all will be forward to your attention.
This is for your information, record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Dear Sir,

Delay Notice – Remaining Cut Pieces at Ceiling in CP L0.0/L0.1

We refer to above-mentioned subject matter and record your persistent failure in the completion of
your works in a timely manner as required and inform you about our concern over the ongoing site
delays caused by you, which have been notified to you numerous times. We also put on record once
again your lack of manpower which is affecting the works and delaying other activities and has to be
resolved immediately.
In light of the above, be informed that the following works need your urgent attention:
Location
Status
CP -L0.0/L0.1- Arrival Immigration Hall Ceiling
The completion of the ceiling has been delayed as highlighted in the enclosed drawing. Your failure to
complete the remaining cut pieces on the ceiling has caused a delay in the handover. The mentioned
outstanding works have also caused many WIR to remain Code 3.

You are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in order to complete the
aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with mitigation measures to recover
the delays caused by you due to incomplete works.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Clause Z7.1.5(b): Further Interim Claims Period: 1st to 31st March 2018
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the detailed interim supporting particulars of claim in respect of the delay
claims
identified in ref: 1, and pursuant to Conditions ,of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(b), herewith provides
details
of those interim claims that had an on-going effect upon the Time for Completion of the Works in the
period from 1st to 31st March 2018 (refer to Annex A hereto). However, as recorded within inter alia
our
letter ref: (2), it is not currently possible for us to advise for example the accumulated delay claimed. We
will nevertheless undertake to do so as part of the consolidated Time Impact Analysis (TIA) process.
Meanwhile, further interim and I or final details of the delay claims listed in Annex A hereto will be

provided wherever possible in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(b) and
SubClause
27.1.5(c).
Yours faithfully
Subject :

Notice to Correct – Renewal of Performance Bond

Dear Sir,
We write pursuant to the Subcontract referenced (1) above in regards to the "Notice to Correct –
Renewal of Performance Bond” subject matter. Kindly note that your Performance Bond has expired on
27th February 2018. Further to our numerous reminders and letter referenced (2) above, please note
that you have failed to submit the renewed Bond.
Hence, we hereby instruct you under Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to
immediately maintain and extend the Performance Bond as per your contractual obligation pursuant to
Clauses 12.5.1 and 12.5.5 [Maintenance of Performance Security and Bonds].
Therefore, you are kindly required to submit your renewed Performance Bond within seven
(7) days from receipt of this letter.
Failing such, we shall not process any Interim Payments, in accordance with Clause 5.1 [Interim
Payments] of the Schedule 11 [Payment Terms], until we receive the extended Performance Bond.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Notice to Correct to Non-Attendance to site and Completion of works

Dear Sir,
We hereby write pursuant to the Subcontract Agreement referenced 1) above for “Design (If any),
Supply, Installation and the Rectification of defects therein of the Lift Steel Structure & Steel Stairs
including Miscellaneous Steel Works for Ramp and Ceiling Work Packages” and in regards to the above
mentioned subject matter. Further to our numerous reminders, we hereby express our concerns about
your non-attendance to the site and the non-completion of your outstanding works.
The majority of the outstanding works in Elevator Shafts are scaffolding installation & dismantling, touch
up & top coat painting, bracket welding due to wrong “Halfen” channels and incomplete steel erection.
Please see enclosed the list of outstanding works on site as of today (Attachment-1).
Therefore, we hereby instruct you under Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to

immediately proceed with the outstanding Works which we have already reminded you through several
correspondences.
Failing to comply with the above will result to a breach of Contract and consequent termination as per
Clause 22.2.2 [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default] which clearly states the following
(for convenience, only sub-clauses applicable to you are given)
22.2.2 "The Contractor may, upon giving the Subcontractor seven (7) Days' notice, terminate the
Subcontract if the Subcontractor:
(a)
N/A
(b)
fails to comply with a notice under clause 22.1 (Notice to Correct);
(c)
abandons the Subcontract Works or otherwise plainly demonstrates the intention not to
continue performance of its obligations under the Subcontract;
(d)
without reasonable excuse, fails to proceed with the Subcontract Works in accordance with
clause 16 (Commencement, Delays and Suspension);
(e)
N/A
(f)
suspends the performance of the Subcontract Works or any part thereof other than in
accordance with clause 23.1 (Subcontractor’s Entitlement to Suspend Work) or as a consequence of
Force Majeure pursuant to clause 26 (Force Majeure) or as necessary for the safety or security of the
Subcontract Works;
(g)
persistently fails to execute the Subcontract Works in accordance with the requirements of the
Subcontract or persistently neglects to carry out and/or fulfil its obligations and/or responsibilities under
the Subcontract without due cause and the Contractor has given seven (7) Days' notice of its intention
to terminate the Subcontract unless the Subcontractor is able to satisfy the Contractor that appropriate
steps are being taken to ensure that there is no reoccurrence of such default;
(h)
N/A
(i)
having commenced the Subcontract Works on Site is unable or fails to proceed with the
Subcontract Works with due expedition (other than as a result of Force Majeure or Contractor breach);
(j)
N/A
(k)
N/A
(l)
N/A
(m)
N/A
(n)
the Subcontractor breaches the Subcontract or is otherwise in default of any of its obligations
under the Subcontract and such breach or default leads, either directly or indirectly, to the termination
of the Contractor's employment under the Contract.
We would like to remind you that in line with Clause 22.2.4 of the Subcontract between us: "Where any
of the circumstances described in Clauses 22.2.1 or 22.2.2 has occurred and the Contractor is entitled to
terminate the Subcontract, the Contractor may at its sole discretion, in lieu of such termination, elect to
omit a section(s) of the Subcontract Works by way of Variation, irrespective of whether the
circumstances described in Clause 22.2.1 or 22.2.2 have occurred in respect of such section(s) and may

instruct another Contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Subcontractor shall have no claim
for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned for such omission".
Kindly note that in the event of such omission, the provisions of Clauses 22.3 (Consequences of
Termination for Subcontractor Default) to 22.5 (Payment after Termination for Subcontractor Default)
shall apply to such omitted section(s) as if the Subcontract had been terminated in respect of such
section(s).
Moreover, our right to omit a section(s) pursuant to Clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to the
Contractor's right at any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Subcontract Works pursuant to Clause
20.1 (Right to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving such omitted work to another
Contractor at any time.
Hence, in addition to this Notice to Correct as highlighted here above, we would like to state our
intention for omitting the works from you and charge the cost of such omission as addressed under the
provisions of Clauses 22.3 (Consequences of Termination for Subcontractor Default) to 22.5 (Payment
after Termination for Subcontractor Default).
The above is without prejudice to our right to claim for any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred
by us and/or other Subcontractors arising as a result of your breaches of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Store yard - Unsecured East Airfield Near ATCC
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of a notification from the Employer regarding the lack of security measures at the
store yard areas as per the subject matter. Please note that as per Schedule 0 (Scope of Subcontract
Works) and Facility Responsibility Matrix (Appendix K) of Schedule 22, you are solely responsible for the
security obligations related to your Subcontract Works, inclusive of stores and laydown areas.
Consequently, after you have been requested to provide the required security measures on numerous
occasions and since you have failed to do so, we hereby inform you that we have taken all necessary
measures on your behalf to safeguard your stores and laydown areas. Hence, please be informed that all
required resources have been deployed and security has been allocated at these areas on twenty-four
(24) hour basis as shown in the enclosure (marked with orange). Specifically, two (2) Security check
points with all the required facilities have been successfully established and four (4) security officers
during dayshift and four (4) during nightshift, total eight (8) security officers have been deployed at the
lay down area near ATCC since 7th April 2018 at 18:00 hrs.
Additionally, please be informed that further action must be taken to improve the following matters:

•
All routes/pathways have to be properly segregated; currently, there is no proper segregation.
Please do the needful;
•
Housekeeping must be improved immediately;
•
Fencing must be placed around the perimeter of the laydowns;
•
It has been noticed that the materials are not stored and covered correctly. Please ensure that
materials are stored and covered properly;
•
Prepare and circulate safety warning flyers representing hazards/risks;
•
Ensure that there is adequate lighting during night shift around all concerned areas;
•
Assign emergency personnel and ensure that their contact numbers are displayed as
“Emergency Contacts” in case they are needed at any given time.
In light of the above information, you are informed that you are required to comply at all times with the
Project’s procedures and all of the HSE processes in place.
This is for your information, records and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Recovery of Overhead, Profit and Attendance due to the Omission of
Other Contractors -- Request for a Determination Pursuant to Clause 11.4
Dear Sir,

Works to Give to

We write in response to your rejection of our claims for damages resulting from the Employer’s breach
of the Contract through the Engineer’s omission of works for the purposes of awarding that work to
other contractors (references 1,2,3, 7).
The Employer has breached the Contract through:
1.
The omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for Items 4/P/1/M, N, 0 & P, involving Stakeholder
and Retail Spaces (reference 6).
2.
The omission of the provisional sum for the hotel fit out (reference 5); and
3.
The omission of the beam seating (reference 4).
In all three cases, the work is required for a fully functional airport. Therefore, in all three cases, the
Engineer has omitted these works in order to give the same, or substantially similar, work to another
contractor.
The Engineer has rejected each of the Contractor’s claims for lost overhead and profit resulting from the
Employer’s breeches. Therefore, the Contractor respectfully requests that the Engineer issue a
determination on this matter within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.

Given the protracted correspondence on this issue, the Contractor will restate its position below so that
its position is stated in a single document.

Basis of the Claim under the Contract:
The original terms of the Contract were included within the request for tender. As the Employer has
recently summarised: “The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated by the Employer
and the Contractor. While the parties did negotiate some terms of the Contract, the operative
provisions at issue were unchanged during the negotiations.
The Contract defined a scope of work which the Contractor was to perform for a lump sum price. The
Contract requires that the Contractor complete that full scope of the Works, and the Employer agreed
to compensate the Contractor to complete the Works. Thus, the Contractor not only has the obligation,
but also the right, to complete the Works and receive the Contract Price.
As is typical in construction contracts, the Contract contemplates that the Employer might want to omit
certain items from the Project. To that end, Clause 1.1 [Definitions] defines a “Variation” to include "a)
the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof". Further, Clause 11.3.1
[Instructions of the Engineer] empowers the Engineer to issue the Contractor “instructions and
additional or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the execution of the Works
… all in accordance with the Contract” and Clause 20.1.1 [Right to Vary] authorises the Engineer to
instruct Variations.
This language cannot reasonably be read to permit the Employer to de-scope work in order to award
that work to another contractor. Rather, consistent with the contractual arrangement, the Engineer
may only instruct the genuine omission of items. If the Engineer’s rights were unfettered, the Employer
could take advantage of cost reductions by awarding work to other contractors while leaving the
Contractor saddled with items of work for which there were cost escalations.
The parties recognised as much. For example, Clause 22.2.4 [Termination by employer for Contractor
Default] states that where the Employer de-scopes the Contractor's work for cause, the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission.
[...]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time.

Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the unfettered
right to omit works to give to other contractors. Indeed, if the Employer could omit works for whatever
reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be entirely redundant with the
authority conferred under Clause 20.1.1; it would also permit the Engineer to avoid the Contractor's
procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission.
This plain reading of the Contract is reinforced by Articles 246 and 265 of the UAE Civil Code. Article 246
provides:
(1) The contract must be performed in accordance with its contents, and in a manner consistent with
the requirements of good faith.
(2) The contract shall not be restricted to an obligation upon the contracting party to do which is
[expressly] contained in it, but shall also embrace that which is appurtenant to it by virtue of law,
custom, and the nature of the disposition.
Further, Article 265 provides that:
[I]f there is scope for interpretation of the contract, an enquiry shall be made into mutual intentions of
the parties without stopping at the literal meaning of the words, and guidance may be sought in so
doing from the nature of the transaction, and the trust and confidence which should exist between the
parties in accordance with the custom current in dealing
In this case, the Engineer’s instruction to omit works to give to others is inconsistent with the
contractual relationship: it unjustly deprives the Contractor the right to earn a profit on the full scope of
its work. Also, as will be explained below, it is industry practice to read such clauses as prohibiting the
Engineer from omitting works to give to other contractors
Response to Engineer’s Arguments
The Engineer claims that three provisions of the Contract permit it to omit work for any purpose
whatsoever, including to award to other contractors:
a) The definition of Variation in Clause 1.1;
b) The definition of “Defined Provisional Sum” found in Clause 1.1; and
c) The BOQ preambles.
None of these provisions support the Engineer’s position.
a) The definition of “Variation” only permits genuine omissions:

The Engineer asserts that because the definition of “Variation” includes the word “omission”, the
Employer is free to omit works for whatever reason without consequence. (References 1,2,3,7.) This is
not what the word “omission” means.
Every single commentary, and every court that has interpreted such language, has come to the
conclusion that "a provision giving the owner or his [engineer] a power to make omissions only
contemplates genuine omissions, that is, works which it is intended should not be carried out at all".
For example, Al Sanhouri, states in his commentary:
The Employer must […] not omit the works from the contractor after having promised him to undertake
such works for a lawful cause. [This is because the Employer] is not allowed to unilaterally go back on
his consent with respect to the contract except within the limits and pursuant to the conditions
stipulated by law.
In Carr v JA Berriman Pty Ltd, the contract contained a clause saying that: "The Architect may in his
absolute discretion, and from to time, issue .... written instructions or written directions ... in regard to
the ... omission ... of any work.'" In holding that it was a breach of contract for the architect to invoke
this clause to omit works to give to other contractors, the High Court in Australia reasoned:
The clause is a common and useful clause, the obvious purpose of which - so far as it is relevant to the
present case - is to enable the architect to direct additions to, or substitutions in, or omissions from, the
building as planned, which may turn out, in his opinion, to be desirable in the course of the performance
of the contract. The words quoted from it would authorise the architect (doubtless within certain limits,
which were discussed in R v Peto (1826) 1 Y & J 37; 48 E.R. 577 to direct that particular items of work
included in the plans and specifications shall not be carried out. But they do not, in my opinion,
authorise him to say that particular items so included shall be carried out not by the builder within
whom the contract is made but by some other builder or contractor. The words used do not, in their
natural meaning, extend so far, and a power in the architect to hand over at will any part of the contract
to another contractor would be a most unreasonable power, which very clear words would be required
to confer. (Emphasis added.)
Similarly, in Gallagher v. Hirsh, the contract provided that: "Should the [employer] at any time during
the progress of the said building request any alteration, deviation, additions or omissions from the said
contract he shall be at liberty to do so." In finding that the employer breached the contract in omitting
this work to award to another contractor, the Appellate Division in New York State held that:
The words are, 'additions or omissions from the said contract,' evidently meaning additions to or
omissions from the work to be done under said contract, which clearly negatives the idea that they were
intended to mean that the [employer] should have the right to omit the work from the plaintiffs
contract, in order to give the contract to another to do the same thing. (Emphasis added.)

More recently, the High Court of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Court of First Instance
construed a variation provision that permitted the instruction of the “addition, omission or alteration of
work items required to complete the Project.” Holding that “it would require clear language to support
a construction” that the employer was permitted to exclude works entirely that were required to
complete the project, the court found that the language was not sufficiently clear to permit the
employer to descope works for purposes of awarding that work to other contractors.
While the Contractor appreciates that these authorities are not from UAE courts, the authorities are
persuasive because they interpreted the very English-language terms used in the Contract. Moreover,
they evidence the industry standard in construction contracts. This is a mega-project in which the
Employer solicited tenders from international construction firms. Certainly, the Employer should have
been familiar with the terms it was proposing and the fact that they had a settled meaning in the
industry. Such industry custom and practice is, as a matter of UAE, directly relevant to the
interpretation of a contract.

b) The definition of “Defined Provisional Sum” only contemplates genuine omissions
With respect to the omissions of the provisional sum claims, the Engineer asserts that the definition of
"Defined Provisional Sum" permits the Employer to omit such items for purposes of instructing other
contractors. (Reference 1,2, and 7.) The Engineer relies upon the definition of "Defined Provisional
Sum", which is, "a sum included in the Contract Price ... for the execution of any part of the Works ...
which sum may be used, in whole or in part, to not at all, on the instructions of the Engineer."
Again, authorities are in agreement that this language does not permit the Engineer to omit Defined
Provisional Sums in order to award that work to other contractors. To the contrary:
Provisional sum work has been treated as definitive and not contingent, so that its omission under a
power to vary, if intended to have the work done by another Contractor, has been held to be outside
the power and in breach of contract entitling the Contractor to damages.
For example, in Hydro Holdings, the contract included a provisional sum for a nominated subcontractor
but the employer directly awarded that work to another contractor. In holding that the employer's
omission of provisional sum work to reallocate to another contractor constituted a breach of contract,
the Court held that, based on “common sense and business morality”:
Under the terms of most contracts, an employer who exercises a power to omit work must genuinely
require the work not to be done at all, and cannot exercise such a power with a view to having the work
carried out by someone else.

Similarly, in Amec Building Limited v. Cadmus Investments Co Limited, the employer omitted work
relating to a provisional sum and later awarded it to a third party. The court noted that the contract
provided the architect "the power ... in his sole discretion to withdraw any work from provisional sums
for whatever reason if he considers it in the best interests of the contract or the employer so to do."
Despite this, the court affirmed the award of lost profits for the omission of provisional sum work to give
to another contractor.
While the Contractor appreciates that this Contract is governed by UAE law, these authorities: (a)
directly opine on the language used in the Contract; and (b) establish that there is an industry practice
and that practice is relevant to the interpretation of the Contract as a matter of UAE law.
c) BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 is not relevant
The Engineer relies upon BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 which states that "[t]he Contractor shall not be
entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the value of any omitted works." (References 1,2,3.)
This reliance too is misplaced.
First, this clause is inapplicable because the Contractor is seeking damages for a breach of contract and
not for an omissions. As Emden's Commentary notes, "if an omission takes away work in order to have
it carried out by another contractor, it seems unlikely this will be a variation, but will be a breach of
contract." As such, this clause is not relevant and does not exculpate the Employer from paying the
Contractor what is due as a matter of law. Second, for the same reasons explained above, the words
"omission" within Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not
relevant.
*
*
*
Based upon the above, the Contractor cannot concur with the Engineer’s position. Accordingly, the
Contractor requests that the Engineer render a determination within meaning of Clause 11.4.1 with the
impartiality and competency required by the Contract.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor is separately claiming for the costs of extra coordination, the
provision of materials to other contractors, and the delay and/or disruption to its work caused by the
other contractors.
Subject:Store yard - Unsecured East Airfield Near ATCC
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of a notification from the Employer regarding the lack of security measures at the
store yard areas as per the subject matter. Please note that as per Clause 4.1.1 of Schedule 22 [4.1.1
Security of the Subcontractor Works (clause 12.14.3 (d))], you are solely responsible for the safety
obligations related to your Subcontract works. Furthermore, Clause 5.4 under Schedule 22 [Security of

the Site (clause 12.28)] states that “The Subcontractor shall provide security of his lay-down area,
offices, workshops and storage facilities as per the conditions mentioned under Facilities Responsibility
Matrix (Appendix “K”)”. Accordingly, be informed that the safeguard of the store yards which will ensure
that all HSE procedures are being followed at all times is your responsibility.
Consequently, after you have been requested to provide the required security measures numerous
times and since you have failed to do so, we hereby inform you that we have taken all necessary
measures on your behalf to safeguard your store yards and laydown areas . Hence, please be informed
that all required resources have been deployed and security on a twenty-four (24) hour basis has been
allocated at the areas as shown in the enclosure (marked with orange colour). Specifically, two (2)
Security checkpoints with all the required facilities have been successfully established and four (4)
security officers during dayshift and four (4) during nightshift, total eight (8) security officers have been
deployed at the lay down area near ATCC since 7th April 2018 at 18:00 hrs.
Additionally, please be informed that further action must be taken to improve the following matters:
•
All routes/pathways have to be properly segregated; currently, there is no proper segregation.
Please do the needful;
•
Housekeeping must improve immediately;
•
Placement of fencing around the perimeter of the laydowns;
•
It has been noticed that the materials are not stored and covered appropriately. Please ensure
that materials are stored and covered properly;
•
Prepare and circulate safety warning flyers representing any hazards/risks;
•
Ensure that there is a proper entry/exit for all of the laydowns;
•
Ensure that there is adequate lighting during night shift around all concerned areas;
•
Assign emergency personnel and ensure that their contact numbers are displayed as
“Emergency Contacts” in case they are needed at any given time.
In light of the above information, you are informed that you are required to comply at all times with the
Project’s procedures and all of the HSE processes in place.
This is for your information, records and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Clause 27.1.1- Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 909- Delayed I Unreasonable Status Code 3
responses to various Shop Drawing Submittals - GA Layout Plans
Dear Sir,
to Public Male and Female Toilets, plus enlarged water supply and drainage
layout plans to slab at Level L2.0 of the Central Space Area (received in the
period between 25 September 2017 and 01 October 2017)
We refer to the Engineer's letter ref: (1) issued in response to our Delay Notice No. 909, ref: (2).

We are fully aware of the contents of Specification Section 013300 'Submittal Procedures', in particular,
the provisions of Article 1.3A3 'Processing time', which places an express obligation upon the Engineer
to
respond to Shop Drawing Submittals (SDSs) within certain specified 'review times', and, in respect of 2
out
of the 3 SDSs subject to Delay Notice No. 909, the Engineer failed to do. We are not aware however, of
any obligation-or requirement for us to "demonstrate that shop drawings have been submitted in a
timely
manner" as alleged by the Engineer, and note that the Engineer's letter ref: (1) is completely devoid of
any
evidence in support of a purported failure to do so in respect of submittals referenced in letter ref: (2).
On the contrary, not only did the Engineer fail to respond to 2 out of the 3 SDSs listed in Annex A to
letter
ref: (2) [which triggers an automatic entitlement to an extension to the Time for Completion], but Annex
B
contains details in support of the Engineer's unreasonable Status Code 3 comments in response to all 3
SDSs which caused us unnecessary additional time [and expense] in having to re-submit Shop Drawings
In view of this, all 'our rights and entitlements to recover the associated additional time and costs
resulting
from the events and circumstances giving rise to delay detailed in Delay Notice No. 909 (ref: 2) remain.
Further, on the basis that the events subject to Delay Notice No. 909 were triggered after 1 August
2017,
then any resultant impact on the critical path due to the breach of Contract and /or the acts of
prevention
on the part of the Engineer and/or Employer's Design Consultant described in letter ref: (2), will be
identified within the forthcoming consolidated Time Impact Analysis (TIA) to be issued in due course.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Response to the Engineer's Notification of Delay- Air Duct System Cleaning Activity
Dear Sir,
(Final Cleaning and Cleanliness Verification)
With reference to the Engineer's notification of delay reference (1) above, we respond as follows.
The Contractor notes the content and concerns of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. The
Contractor shall investigate and discuss with the relevant Subcontractor, any delays to air duct system
cleaning activity.
Whilst the Contractor is making all sensible efforts and using reasonable endeavours to achieve the
target
dates as per the rev 10.4 Programme and the duct cleaning recovery programme, the Engineer should
appreciate that it may not always be feasible to achieve some of the ambitious targets set in these
programmes, due to unforeseen circumstances.

The Contractor however assures the Engineer and the Employer that it continues to work in good faith
to
meet the accelerated target completion date set for the completion of the Works. Finally, when
assessed
against the update of the rev 10.4 Programme as at 01 February 2018, there is no slippage with respect
to
30 June 2019 target completion, caused by the alleged delays in air duct system cleaning activity.
We trust the above clarifies your concerns.
Subject RE: Additional Cost for Revision of Model and Additional Mould for Slab Edge@
Dear Sir,
North & South Retail Over lift Curved Area
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor requests an additional
payment of AED 22,300.00 for allegedly revising its model and procuring two additional moulds for the
slab
edges at both north and south retail over lift curved areas.
In relation to the Subcontractor's claim that two additional moulds (one for the south and one for north)
had
to be procured in order to fabricate 'two half panels with recesses', the Contractor notes that the
original IFC
I Contract drawings already showed two panels at each of the over lift curved areas. It was due to
Subcontractor's request via RFI No. 12410 that the joint between the two curved panels was removed
making
one large curved slab edge panel. A while after the Subcontractor contended that its production
methodology
could not fabricate one single large curved panel and requested approval for fabricating the said curved
panel
in two halves (RFI No. 13249).
In other words, the Contractor confirms that the number of panels, and therefore the number of
moulds,
required to execute the curved over lift areas remained unchanged if compa red with the IFC I Contract
drawings. Moreover, the changes in the arrangement of the panels were, in all instances, proposed by
the
Subcontractor to better suit its production I installation methodology. Therefore, the Contractor is of
the
opinion that, unless demonstrated otherwise, the Subcontractor should not be compensated for the
additional works claimed in its submission (1).
Yours faithfully
Subject: Pending Procurement and/or Delivery of Materials {Ill)

Dear Sir,
Reference is made to the Contractor's letters (1) and (2) whereby the Subcontractor was requested to
clarify
the status of its procurement and was instructed to provide the delivery and target completion dates for
the
remaining quantities of materials required to complete the Subcontract Works. It is noted that the
Subcontractor has not yet provided the requested information thus neglecting the Contractor's
instructions I
directions.
The Subcontractor is hereby instructed to make good his failure and furnish the Contractor with the
information requested via letter references (1) and (2) within seven days of this notice.
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Delay Notice – Remaining cut pieces at ceiling in CP L0.0/L0.1

We write to record the delays caused by you due to your incomplete work activities for the following
which has been highlighted to you numerous times.
Location
Status
CP -L0.0/L0.1- Arrival Immigration Hall Ceiling Delayed completion and release of ceiling at L0.0/L0.1
as highlighted in the enclosed highlighted drawing. Cloisall ‘s failure to complete the remaining cut
pieces on the ceilings has caused delay on the handover. Because of these balance works on the ceilings,
no WIR is approved.
You are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in order to complete the
aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with mitigation measures to recover
the delays caused by you due to incomplete works.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Substantiation of Prolongation Costs Submission

Dear Sir,
Further to your submission of Prolongation Costs (i.e. Monthly Prolongation Cost Submissions) and in
continuation to our letter referenced (1) above and further to our meetings regarding this matter, be

informed that we have audited your submission and we have forwarded the same to the Engineer for its
determination.
Please note that our determination is subject to the Engineer’s determination for this matter. At this
juncture, pursuant to Clause 11.4 [Determinations] please note that “The Subcontractor agrees that
where the Subcontract provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to
agree or determine any matter, if the matter relates or pertains to a matter which the Contractor has
referred to the Engineer for agreement or determination pursuant to similar provisions under the main
Contract, the Contractor shall be entitled, but not obliged, to rely on the Engineer’s agreement or
determination in respect of such matter.”
In light of the foregoing and as per our previous correspondence regarding this matter, please note that
substantiation and clarification are required to enable the Engineer and subsequently ourselves to make
a determination in regards to your entitlement. Please note that we are not obligated under the
Contract as mentioned above, to give any determination in regards to your Prolongation Costs
Submission if the Engineer has not determined the matter beforehand.
Moreover, after our review you are advised to resubmit your Monthly Prolongation Costs in the form of
a Claim in line with relevant Clauses of the Subcontract Agreement, taking into consideration the
comments described herein. In order to assist us in establishing your entitlement, you are also required
to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each
delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical
Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the Critical
Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time. Additionally, it is
noteworthy that you should ensure the format, contents and structure of your Submission are prepared
and provided in an acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your Monthly Prolongation
Costs in the form of a Claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion],
27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract. Failure to provide the
necessary information will prejudice both the Subcontractor's entitlement and the Contractor's ability to
evaluate these Prolongations Costs to the satisfaction of all parties.
In view of the above and all previous correspondence on this matter, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order to be able to make our
determination.
This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Damage Notification –Damaged Screen at CP, L1.0, 5.25C Departure Bussing Gate –South 0497
Dear Sir,
Further to our letters referenced in (3) & (4), kindly find enclosed another letter received from M/s. SITA
referenced in (5), which is self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the contents of the above letter, we regret to inform you that we believe your
site
Personnel have damaged the display screen while fixing the perforated sheet in between the display
screen and signage. Please note that your employees have repeatedly committed the same mistakes on
different occasions regardless of our previous notifications to put in place precautionary measures to
avoid repeating such negligence.
We hereby request you to provide a comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment of the same.
Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and back charge all the reinstatement cost and other
associated cost from your account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3
(Contractor's Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) whereby you are
liable for the loss and damages arising out of your action.
Whilst writing, you are hereby advised to implement strict preventive measures in order to avoid such
incidents in future.
This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Store yard - Unsecured East Airfield Near ATCC
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of a notification from the Employer regarding the lack of security measures at the
store yard areas as per the subject matter. Accordingly, we would like to inform you that certain actions
have to be taken by you to safeguard the store yards and ensure that all HSE procedures are being
followed at all times.
In light of the above, you are hereby instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor]
to use all safety measures at the store yards by taking all necessary actions and deploying all required
resources i.e. security to be allocated on a twenty-four (24) hour basis and fencing to be placed at the
perimeter of the store yards.
Additionally, please be informed that further action must be taken to improve the following matters:
•
Security guards to be placed as mentioned above;

•
All routes/pathways have to be properly segregated; currently, there is no proper segregation.
Please do the needful;
•
Housekeeping must improve immediately;
•
Placement of fencing around the perimeter of the laydowns;
•
It has been noticed that the materials are not stored and covered appropriately. Please ensure
that materials are stored and covered properly;
•
Prepare and circulate safety warning flyers representing any hazards/risks;
•
Ensure that there is a proper entry/exit for all of the laydowns;
•
Ensure that there is adequate lighting during night shift around all concerned areas;
•
Assign emergency personnel and ensure that their contact numbers are displayed as
“Emergency Contacts” in case they are needed at any given time.
In light of the above information, you are informed that you are required to comply at all times with the
Project’s procedures and all of the HSE processes in place.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:HSE Incident Investigation Report ref HSE-INC-647
Dear Sir,
We write in regards to the incident described in the enclosed HSE Incident Investigation Report (IIR)
which is self-explanatory, regarding a “High Potential Near Miss” incident which took place on site on
27th March 2018. Please note that the incident described in the enclosed IIR is a failure towards the
compliance of the Project procedures and is contrary to the project’s expectations, standards and a
violation of the HSE processes.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to remove the violator as shown in the enclosed IIR
immediately and take all safety measures to avoid similar incidents in the future.
We are taking this opportunity to remind you that we have a policy of treating incidents like the one
described herein, with zero tolerance. You are hereby advised to implement strict preventive measures
and ensure that all HSE procedures are being followed at all times, in order to avoid such incidents in the
future.
This is for your information and further immediate action.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:
Engineers Instruction No. 677A – Award of DPS – Back of House
Statutory Signage Items – BoQ PS/4/P/2/I,J,K & L
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, please be reminded that to date we have not received the
requested revised and proper instruction along with the relevant documents to enable us to proceed
and enter into a Subcontract Agreement.
This is for your kind information and necessary action.

Yours faithfully,
Subject FWD: Non-Conformance Report reference MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-00845
Dear Sir,
Further to letter reference (1) which set forth the Contractor's objection to the Engineer's refusal to
close out
Non-Objection Report No. 845 (NCR-845), please find attached letter reference (2) wherein the
specialist
cladding Subcontractor Chadwick Technology LLC also responds to the comments made by the Engineer
on
NCR-845.
The Subcontractor concurs with the Contractor that the Engineer shall neither withhold nor refuse to
close
out a non-conformance on the basis of a separate material submittal. The Engineer shall proceed to
close out
the non-conformance upon identification of the root cause of failure and subsequent confirmation of
the
proposed remedial measures.
The Engineer is therefore politely requested to take into consideration the comments made by the
Subcontractor in its letter (2) and proceed with the closure of NCR-845.
Subject:

Euro exchange rate for CCM’s Variation Orders

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our numerous discussions regarding the
subject matter, we would like to notify you that there is an ongoing issue in regards to the agreement of

the exchange rate for the Variations Orders (VO’s) related to our Subcontractor M/S C.C.M Airport
Equipment ME LLC (CCM).
Kindly be informed that the mentioned Subcontractor is withholding the delivery and installation of
materials to the site until receipt of the corresponding VO’s, accordingly. We assure you that we have
been in continuous communication with the Subcontractor and the Engineer, taking all necessary
measures to avoid any delays and resolve this matter as soon as possible. We have also used our rights
derived from the Subcontract Agreement between us and the Subcontractor, instructing CCM to
proceed with the works without delay until issuance of the VO’s, but it has refused to do so. For this
reason, we kindly hereby notify you that your contribution in an effort to resolve this matter is required.
We would also like to refer to our previous discussions and meetings, wherein you have confirmed that
the rate to be used for the issuance of the aforesaid VO’s is at the exchange rate of 4.55 AED/€.
In light of the above, please be informed that at the time of writing this letter, we have not yet received
the VO’s from the Engineer which is subject to agreement of the exchange rate. Therefore, we kindly
request you to confirm our verbal agreement regarding the agreed exchange rate mentioned above and
liaise with the Engineer to expedite the issuance of the said VO’s as soon as practicable.
At this juncture, we reserve all of our rights derived under the Contract and inform you that we as the
Contractor, will not be held liable for any delays in regards to the issuance of the VO’s discussed herein
or any delays caused due to our Subcontractor’s refusal to proceed with the works as described above.
To conclude, we await the expeditious receipt of the aforementioned VO’s, to notify the Subcontractor
to proceed with its Contractual Obligation and complete the works.
Your immediate response on the matter is kindly required and will be highly appreciated.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Notice to Correct / Delay Notice

Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous numerous correspondences and particularly our letter reference (1)
regarding your failure to proceed with the works accordingly. We regret to notice that despite our
instructions and notifications, your performance has not improved and no measures have been taken to
mitigate your delays.
Once more, we point out your failure to meet your Contractual Obligations which consequently affects
our obligations under the Contract. Therefore, we hereby inform you that we will take immediate action
to resolve this issue by deploying all necessary resources to complete the works on your behalf, which
you will be backcharged accordingly as per Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].

As mentioned above, all associated costs will be backcharged from your account according to the
Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement
Yours faithfully,
1.
Executive Summary
Cloisall has submitted numerous revisions of their EOT & Prolongation Costs for the Ceilings and
Pavilions Package and a Claim for Disruption Events associated with the Ceilings package. Cloisall’s total
value of these Claims is in the amount of AED 80,940,007. Subsequently, after numerous meetings and
discussions, we have completed our assessment of the aforementioned Claims. TCA JV’s value ranges
between AED 46,210,378 and AED 53,160,575 of the said Claims depending on numerous variables
presented in detail below.
As an amicable settlement, Cloisall have verbally stated that they would accept AED 60m for EOT &
Prolongation Claims and Disruption events until 1st April 2018. It was also suggested by Cloisall, to deal
with all other events after 1st April 2018, on a pro-rata basis.
There is also an opportunity to settle a Claim from Cloisall for Rainwater Damages that is not included
within TCA JV’s above-mentioned assessment value. All details regarding the aforementioned are given
in detail, below.
2.

Commercial Position

The Claims submitted by Cloisall for EOT & Prolongation are for events until 30th June 2017 and are
based on 100% costs compensated from 10th April 2018 until 31st December 2018. TCA JV’s assessment
is for events until 30 June 2017 and is based on 81.25% of costs compensated until 31st December 2018.
Cloisall says that in accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme the works were planned to be completed
by 11 March 2017 but at this date the works were only approximately 46% complete. During this period
therefore, Cloisall says that Staff was non-productive for 54% of this time (which Cloisall claims as the
percentage (%) of “Location” and “Task” Staff affected by the events causing delay to the critical path).
JV acknowledges that some portion of “Location” Staff (to be determined) may have been affected by
the events causing delay to the critical path but that “Task” Staff were not affected.
The 54% deficit claimed by Cloisall, assumes that Cloisall was 100% efficient during the period of 01
March 2015 to 11 March 2017 and that it was not liable for any of the shortfall in production. This is
unlikely to be true and so JV has to adduce evidence of how production may have negatively impacted
by events which are Cloisall’s risk e.g. availability of resources, efficiency of resources, mitigation
measures, weather etc. and propose an alternative percentage (%). In this regard it may be relevant to
note that if the ‘but-for’ method of delay analysis had been used in lieu of the ‘first-in-line’ method, then
the compensable delay for events occurring up to 30 June 2017 would have been 115 days i.e.
approximately 29% of the 394 days used in the valuation of Prolongation Cost. This implies that Cloisall
was culpable for 71% of the delay. If applied to the 54%, then the deficit for which JV may accept liability
would be 29% of 54% = 16%.

The two TCA JV options below are a minimum and a maximum liability, which depend on the percentage
(%) applied against the average daily rate for costs after 9th April 2018 until 31st December 2018 and
the value/percentage applied against the “Location” Staff. TCA JV’s assessment does not consider any
costs associated with “Task” Staff.
Ceilings - Disruption
Cloisall have submitted four (4) Disruption Claims totalling AED 28,769,980. TCA JV has responded to
each of Cloisall’s Claims requesting further substantiation and subsequently valuing the Claims as Nil.
TCA JV’s liability for this Claim is 15% of Cloisall’s submitted value in the amount of AED 4,311,197.
Rainwater Damage
Another Claim submitted by Cloisall that could be included as part of a financial settlement could be
Cloisall’s two (2) Rainwater Damage Claims in the amount of AED 4,862,230.99. TCA JV has responded
by email on numerous occasions requesting further substantiation in order to assess their submission.
TCA JV assessment is based on the removal of the existing ceiling and supply and installation of
replacement ceiling tiles including any necessary access equipment to be in the amount of AED
1,083,378.06
3.

Conclusion

Including our assessment of the Rainwater damage Claim, TCA JV’s maximum assessment value is in the
amount of AED 54,243,953.06. However, this is subject to recompensing only 15% of Cloisall’s claimed
value for Disruption events. Cloisall’s Claim is global in nature and is lacking the required substantiation
and does not provide enough information in order for us to complete a proper assessment at this stage.
The current value of our assessment is Nil based on the request to submit additional information;
nevertheless, we do not believe it would be Nil, if Cloisall were to submit a full and proper Claim based
on the requirements we have presented to them in our response letters.
Cloisall will also be unaware that the Rainwater damage Claims may form part of the amicable
settlement. The value of this, is subject to additional substantiation but if a financial settlement is being
introduced, then including this with a settlement figure could be worthwhile in order to settle another
Claim.
Subject:

Notice to Correct: Delay Notice DCM-16 SS Grille (MEP Submittal)

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the numerous email correspondences
regarding your delay in the procurement of DCM-16 SS Grille materials, this is to put on record and

notify you of your failure to deliver the mentioned materials. Despite our previous numerous reminders
you continue to fail to deliver the materials, which is completely unacceptable and will no longer be
entertained.
Furthermore, we regret to notice your statement in your email correspondence hereby attached that
“…we are waiting for the money to be release from TCAJV to proceed further.” This statement is totally
disregarded and refuted due to the fact that we have been supporting you by all means, by ensuring all
certifications are on time, issuing timely payments and continuing to support you in all matters related
to your Subcontract Works. Our aforementioned support is also substantiated by the fact that we have
been assisting you financially by issuing Third Party Agreements, On Accounts Payments, certifying more
than your actual progress on site and issuing direct LPO’s to your suppliers etc.
As mentioned above, at the time of writing this letter, you have failed your Contractual Obligations to
manage your works which consequently puts the Project’s Milestones at risk. In view of the above, you
are informed that the situation is becoming harmful to the Contractor’s obligations under the Contract.
Consequently, a potential Claim against you pursuant but not limited to Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] is
now becoming more evident, if you do not take all appropriate measures to rectify your failures
immediately. Please be informed that not proceeding with the works as instructed is considered a
breach of Contract.
Therefore, in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and take action for
the following issues:
•
You are instructed to ensure that all materials are delivered and installed by 30th May 2018. In
case you do not comply with this instruction the soonest, we will need to take appropriate action.
In view of the above if you continue to fail we will appoint a Third Party to execute the works and all
associated costs will be recovered from your account in accordance but not limited to the Subcontract
Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
To conclude, we hereby give you a Notice to Correct under the Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to
Correct] to proceed with the works accordingly and immediately. At this juncture, we must emphasize
once more that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Extra Co Letter with supporting documents for Delay claim

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (1), (2) and (4) above, pertaining to the aforementioned
subject.
Following initial review of your submitted documentation, we note that, you did not follow the
guidelines
sent to you through several letters and e-mails.
If you deem yourself entitled to 'Prolongation Costs' for any period beyond March 2015
(EaT 2), then you are required to follow the e-mails (Attachment 1) as well as our letters referenced (3),
(5), (6), (7), (8) above and submit a detailed TIA Report to demonstrate your time entitlement
accordingly.
You are reminded of your obligation to adhere Clauses 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claims) and
27.2 (Time Impact Analysis, TIA) which clearly defines the requirements for your claims, how to
discharge
the burden of proof and to provide the detailed time entitlement and cost substantiation in the format
and structure as per JV and the Engineer's Requirements.
Should you require further guidance and assistance, please do not hesitate to approach us.
This is for your reference and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request for Engineer's Instruction [RFEI/0401/0686]
Dear Sir,
Deflector 'Back-Pan' Flashing at Bottom ACP for Water/Sand Protection
The Contractor refers to its Request for a Variation Order No. 1511 {1} in respect of the Consultant's
direction that a deflector 'back-pan' flashing is added at the bottom of the aluminium composite panels
(ACP}.
Please note that neither the typical Tender/IFC section details of the roof edge panels indicate any
'backpan'
flashings to the ACP cladding nor does Specification 074101 identify such requirement; however,
during the shop drawing review process, the Consultant directed the Contractor to add the said 'backpan'
flashings to avoid accumulation of both sand and water. The Contractor further notes that, it was only
when the deflector 'back-pan' flashings were incorporated to the subsequent revision of the abovelisted
shop drawings that the Consultant assigned a code-2 to these submissions enabling the Contractor to
proceep with the works.
The Contractor confirms that early notice was given to the Engineer that these works constitute a
Variation to the Contract and, moreover, the issuance of a formal Variation Order has already been
requested (1}; yet, the Engineer's assessment of the Contractor's entitlement has not materialised to
date. The Contractor requests therefore that the Engineer reviews the information provided and
confirms

that the deflector 'back-pan' flashing shall be installed via an Engineer's Instruction pursuant to Clause
20.1.1{a) of the Conditions of Contract to enable the Contractor to proceed with the additional works.
Yours faithfully
Subject RE: Additional Cost for Revision of Model Due to RC Wall Interface Detail &
Dear Sir,
Setting Out Issue Item-Planter (PS 24.1 & 24.2)
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor requests an additional
payment of AED 8,400.00 in respect of the content of request for information {2). To be clear:
This request for information {RFI) was submitted in order to propose a solution to the constructability
issues being encountered by the Subcontractor to complete the planters' precast concrete cladding on
corners with small radius.
The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor's submission {1) does not provide any details in respect of
the level of development achieved on its BIM model when the RFI response was received. Neither does
this submission explain how the Subcontractor's BIM model was aborted considering that the precast
geometry of the planters remained unchanged.
Notwithstanding the above, please be reminded that the provisions of Clause 4.2.38 of Schedule 0
[Scope
of Subcontract Works] state that the Subcontractor 'is to allow for all design changes of a 'minor'
nature'.
The Contractor believes that the model update claimed by the Subcontractor derives from its request to
slightly update the detail of the corners to facilitate the constructabifity of the planters and, moreover, it
is of a minor nature. The Contractor is of the opinion that, unless demonstrated otherwise, the
Subcontractor should not be compensated for the model update included in its submission {1).
Yours faithfully,
Subject Processor Swing Arm Test- Request for Information RFI/0401/15440
Dear Sir,
Reference is made to request for information (1) wherein the Contractor sought clarification on the
testing
requirements for the swing arm bearings installed by the Subcontractor J&H Emirates LLC.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that the above-referenced request for information was submitted on 26
November 2017 and responded by the Design Consultant (KPF) on 18 December 2017; however, it was
received by the Contractor on 12 March 2018, i.e. it took the Engineer almost three months to return
KPF's response. Considering that moneys are being withheld against the related non-conformance
report,
the Contractor expresses its dissatisfaction with the Engineer's unreasonable delay in forwarding the
responded request for information.
Secondly, the Contractor regrets that the response issued by KPF does not fully address the clarification
sought by the Contractor and the Subcontractor via request for information (1). Hence, the Contractor

reiterates its demand that the Engineer and/or the Design Consultant advise whether the laboratory test
can be undertaken applying a reduced load value in accordance with the design load and instead of the
static load value included in the catalogue.
In view of the delays already incurred in closing this issue, the Contractor politely requests the Engineer
responds as soon as practicably possible.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1036 - Non-Compliance of DL-21 Internal Glass Sliding Doors
Dear Sir
On 24 August 2017, the Contractor received letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08067, dated 23 August
2017, enclosing Engineer's Instruction No. 681D. This instructed the Contractor pursuant to Conditions
of
Contract Sub-Clause 20.1.1(a), to "implement the additional information in relation to RFI's and other
queries raised for Door Hardware Workshop Results & Implementation for Central Processor Levels
LB2.0, LBl.O, LO.O, LO.l & Ll.O".
Amongst the myriad changes therein, it was observed that Door Types C-Ll0-1371-04 and C-Ll0-1371-05
for the Limo Pick-up Drop Off Zones had been altered to break out doors for egress. The Contractor
noted in numerous workshops thereafter, and an email to the Employer and its Design Consultants on 8
February 2018 (refer to Annex A) that as the Limo Pick-up Drop Off Zones were considered as garage
areas and therefore, a high hazard area, the breakout functionality was not compliant with both IBC and
Life Safety Codes. Based upon which, the Contractor would be unable to undertake the works as
instructed.
In relation thereto, the Contractor records that to date, and despite the concerns raised on multiple
occasions, the design still remains non-compliant.
The Engineer's continued failure to provide a compliant design is continuing to prevent the Contractor
from coordinating and finalising the approval of Shop Drawings, completing the Limo Pick up Area and
completion of Shell and Core Activities. Consequently, this will impact upon the Contractor's ability to
achieve inter alia Milestones MS06, MS09A.7, and Milestones MS09B and MS10. The Contractor
contends
that this constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's
Personnel.
Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract. Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and
adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.S(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Payment for Commissioning Works- TCA JV's Comment

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of the above Invoice and we would comment as follows.
Please be informed we have certified your payment in relation to Commissioning Works for Room 7 to
10
with a total of 395 hours (see enclosed email). Subsequently, the Supervision for Installation works have
been agreed to be excluded as per our meeting dated 09 January 2018 accordingly.
Nevertheless, we have received additional Invoice from you with ref: DB 900150 dated 27 Jan 2018 (see
enclosed Invoice) claiming for extra cost on top of the abovementioned 395 hours (see enclosed
Invoice).
We would remind you that the daily rate for Commissioning Works of AED 4,400/Day (see enclosed
Agreement) is subject to a limit as indicated in the LPO (see enclosed LPO), whereby we have allowed a
limit of approximate 10 hours for you to complete the commissioning works in each room, we consider
M/S Cummins, as a specialist in the industry has the ability to plan and achieve the said target
accordingly.
Consequently, we regret to inform you that we are unable to accept any claim beyond this limit and the
above Invoice with the amount of AED 36,960 is hereby rejected.
Whilst writing, we would request you to obtain an access card from our HR Department for each of your
Commissioning staff in order to enable our assessment inline with your daily rate claim as per our
Agreement. We believe this shall benefit both parties to avoid any future dispute in this regard.
Should you have queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
Yours faithfully,
SUBJECT NOTICE OF DELAY N0.38 (Lack of Access and Manpower Disruption)
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and further to our Subcontract Agreement reference # SC 039/B
(MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/0050) dated 2ih October 2014 for Ceiling Works, kindly be informed that
Closiall was encumbered by several events encountered throughout the execution of the project and
attributed to the JV's default, particularly the Lack of access and/or non-compheransive (partial)
access.
The existence of this delaying event(s), therefore has affected the Cloisall's ability to act in accordance
with the Subcontract Agreement in respect of its planned progress due to reasons beyond its control,
which in return has prevented the achievement of the Subcontract Completion by the date specified
in the Subcontract Agreement.
The JV issued to Closiall its revised Baseline Programme rev.OG, which included the planned access
dates that will be provided by the JV to Cloisall in a timely manner for executing its Scope of Works.
Relaying on these dates, Cloisall had planned its team, workforce, .... etc in the required manner to
follow the Contractor's planned sequence.
However, the JV failed to comply with its Programme and in return wasn't able to provide Cloisall
with the access in a proper timely manner in line with its Baseline Programme rev.06; causing Cloisall
to suffer delays beyond its control and disturbing its work progress as illustrated in the attached site

photos.
Such a failure by the JV is an action and/or inaction which is in contrary to the Subcontract Conditions,
the Subcontract Conditions states that 'the Contractor shall give the Subcontractor right of access to
all parts of the Site within the time (or times) stated in Schedule 1 (Subcontract Particulars) .... '
pursuant to Sub-Clause 10.1.1, which wasn't complied by the JV.
In addition to that the Specifications Section 095135 Item 1.9 calls for an enclosed and weathertight
environment as a prerequisite prior to the installation of the custom metal pan ceilings and walls .
Therefore, in the absence of such conditions the provided access (if any) is considered as
noncomprehensive
(partial) access.
On the other hand, the Subcontractor's contractual obligations include the arrangements for the
engagement of all staff and labour, local or otherwise, and for their payment, housing, feeding and
transport pursuant to Sub-Clause 14.1.
Accordingly, if Closiall suffers critical delay and/or incurs Cost as a result of the JV's failure to provide
right of access in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Clause 10.1, for a reason(s) which has
noncontractual
burden and attributed to the JV's default, Closiall shall be entitled subject to Sub-Clauses
10.1.6, 16.5 (Extension of Time for Completion), 21.2 (Adjustments to the Subcontractors Price), 27.1
(Subcontractors Claims), and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) to an extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion for any such delay and payment of any incurred and/or associated Cost(s) pursuant to
Sub-Clause 10.1.4.
Without any prejudice to our contractual entitlement, Cloisall hereby requests the JV to be officially
provided with the accurate anticipated access dates to all work fronts. These dates will enable Cloisall
to properly plan, programme, manage and commence the works in a productive manner and
complying with Specification Section 095135, 1.9 Project Conditions. It is therefore imperative to have
these dates to avoid any further delays and to minimize the incurred costs.
In light of the above and pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 of the Sub-Contract Conditions, Cloisall is
hereby reserve its right for claiming an Extension of Time and the reimbursement of any associated
costs attributable to such delaying event(s), inclusive of any disruptive costs resulting from loss of
productivity and/or idle manpower.
Meanwhile, Cloisall continues to comply with its contractual obligations in respect to the mitigation
measurements through the implemented action(s), which is coordinated with the JV, for minimizing
the associated costs.
Cloisall would appreciate that the above matters are being properly addressed so we can jointly
proceed with minimizing delays to this project.
Subject: Progress of Prl Works- Notice of Delay (IV)
Dear Sir,
Further to the Contractor's delay notices referenced above and issued in respect of the Prl lack of
progress, the Contractor reiterates its concerns in relation to the Subcontractor's continuous lack of
performance.
For example, the Contractor records the Subcontractor's inability to undertake site measurements,

procure and deliver the required flashings for the Prl. As of the date of this correspondence, the
Subcontractor fabricated the same pressing four times being in every instance unsuitable for
installation;
this cannot be understood by the Contractor. Be reminded that the Contractor should be able to rely
upon
the Subcontractor's professional expertise, skill, care and judgement in relation to all matters
concerning
the execution of the Subcontract Works; hence, the Subcontractor continuously and repeatedly failing
to
monitor and correct its fabrication process is simply not acceptable.
The Contractor takes this opportunity to remind the Subcontractor that the control sample should have
been completed by 15 December 2017 and yet three months after the actual completion date for this
benchmark remains unknown.
The Contractor reiterates that its rights under the provisions of Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and
Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] of the Conditions of Subcontract are reserved.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
We write in continuation to our letter reference (2) and in response to your letter reference (3) above,
regarding the subject matter. After reviewing the Schedule enclosed in your letter (3), please note the
following:
•
Dates for Pier-4 are exceeding the latest date required for Pier-4, i.e. 3rd May 2018. This is not
acceptable since it will affect Pier-4 taking over;
•
You have provided submission dates only for the drawings under ‘mandatory’ action category,
however, our previous letters and emails have explained that the full list of drawings must be submitted,
where ‘action: mandatory/elective’ indicates the operator’s priorities. Hence, all drawings require
submission dates;
•
The above will exclude mock-up drawings which already have corresponding permanent works.
Mock-up drawings will be marked for cancellation from the as-built list, and submission will not be
required;
•
Any work which has been completed on site should be encouraged for early as-built submission
to prevent overload of as-built drawings at the time of deadline of each completion stage.
In view of the above, this letter is to put on record your delays and instruct you as per Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations] to take appropriate action as stated
above and to ensure that you meet the targets accordingly. Failing such, we shall hold you responsible
and backcharge all associated costs (if any) from your account according to the Conditions of the
Subcontract Agreement, for your failure to comply with your contractual obligations.

Meanwhile, we request you to confirm that the dates as per the Schedule attached herewith can be
met. Please note that the dates provided therein, are the latest acceptable dates and are not negotiable.
In case you can confirm earlier dates than the ones mentioned in the attachment then, by all means,
please do so and inform us accordingly.
At this juncture, we must emphasize that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred
by us arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your
responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors
and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
Your response to this letter is requested within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Should you require further clarification on any of the above, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours Faithfully
Subject: Target As-Built Drawing Schedule Rev.02.1 dated 22 November 2017-Reminder
Dear Sir,
Please be reminded that your response to our letter ref. no. MTB-TCA-MOSART-l-000493 dated OS Dec.
2017 is overdue.
We note with concern that failure to receive your response could adversely affect the project close-out
and completion target dates.
You are kindly requested to take appropriate action to review the subject matter and respond with your
feedback and I or confirmation at the soonest convenience.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000511 dated 17-Jan-18, regarding as-built drawing
schedule, we regret to note that your as-built drawing submission schedule is yet to be received.
In the absence of your response, with reference to the Target As-built Drawing Schedule Rev 02.1 issued
to yourselves under above mentioned TCAJV letter, please be reminded that the scheduled dates are
overdue.
Moreover, it has been observed that your submission of as-built drawings of Pier 4 & Pier 3 have
currently become critical for the Project Handing Over.
As per the Programme Rev. 10.4 and Project Close-out Forecasting Principle including As-built BIM
Model submission and approval durations, final As-built Drawing submissions may not exceed the
following latest dates for each stage of the building completion:
• Pier 4 -- 03 May 2018,

• Pier 3 -- 21 Jun 2018,
• Pier 1 -- 12 Aug 2018,
• Pier 2 -- 21 Sep 2018,
• CP -- 16 Jan 2019 .
Since the submission and approval of the handing over documentation is mandatory for obtaining the
taking over certificate for each completion stage of the project, you are required to take the following
necessary actions with immediate effect:
a) Provide mitigation plan (revised forecast dates) for all delayed as-built drawings.
b) Provide revised submission plan for all balance as-built drawings in line with planned construction
completion dates.
c) Submit all balance as-built drawings for approval in an expeditious manner.
d) Resubmit any Code 3 or Code 4 as-built drawings if applicable.
Subject NAFFCO Continuous Ongoing Lack of Performance - Response to the Engineer's
Dear Sir,
In response to your letter {1) above, we hereby acknowledge receipt of the letter {2) confirming the
Contractor's commitment to achieving the 30 June 2019 substantial completion date in accordance
with the Target Programme to completion Rev 10.4. We reiterate that the Engineer has rejected the
Contractor's assertion that this programme is 'accelerated' in numerous previous correspondence.
The Contractor in the above correspondence (1) has stated "when assessed against the update of the
Rev 10.4 Programme as of 01 January 2018, there is no slippage in the final completion date of 30 June
2019, caused by the alleged delays in NAFFCO's performance."
We hereby record our observations against the planned progress of fire protection activities against
the Target Programme to Completion Rev 10.4.
As of 01 February 2018, the Contractor has failed to make any progress on several Fire Protection
System activities such as Fire Pipe Installation, Pressure Testing of Fire Pipes, Sprinklers Installation,
Fire Hose Cabinet Installation and Gaseous Suppression System Installation. We further observed that
many of the above delayed activities total float values have dropped below 30 Days as per the
Contractor critical activity definition in Rev 10.4.
We also record that the primary cause of these delays is the lack of coordination, delay in material
procurement and the shortage of resources from the Contractor and its Subcontractors as highlighted
during the weekly meetings.
Subject CSCEC- China State Acceleration Claim- Engineer's Interim Assessment
Dear Sir,
Please find attached the Engineer's letter (1) dated 13th March 2018 reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401LTR09153 wherein the Engineer provides a report for an Interim Assessment of CSCEC's Acceleration Costs,
and in relation to CSCEC's acceleration efforts that were related to the steel roof structure for the
Central

Processor in the period from March 2015 to November 2015.
Accordingly, CSCEC is herewith requested to respond to the Engineer's Interim Assessment of CSCEC's
Acceleration Costs.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Briefing Packs Neutral Document Record Sheets
Dear Sir,
Generated Between OS February 2018 to 07 March 2018
We enclose herewith revised Briefing Packs Sketches and CMIR as a record of the change management
workshops held between OS February 2018 to 07 March 2018 for your preparation of additional or
modified
drawings and specification and instruction necessary for the execution of the Works.
Kindly note that some of the signed document dates may vary from the cut-off date due to the time lag
between actual signatures and upload into shared file transfer protocol server.
For clarity and avoidance of doubt:
• The attached neutral sketches and other documents illustrate further development of, and potentially
additional changes than those provided in the original sketches as initially instructed by the Engineer's
Briefing Pack. For practical purposes and/or where ever practicable, the changes are identified by
clouding
the relevant parts ofthe neutral sketches.
• Other than reflecting the Employer's proposed Variation in relation to the current Contractor
coordination
of the Works, the Contractor's signature on the attached neutral documents does not imply any
warranty
or design responsibility with respect of the proposed Employer Variation.
• The Employer shall be responsible for ensuring that the participating Consultants have exercised the
necessary skill, care and judgement and are suitably qualified professionals who are competent to carry
out their assigned duties and are delegated the necessary authorities by the Engineer to act on behalf of
the Employer.
• The Employer retains the responsibility for the design, compliance with codes/applicable laws and the
relevant Governmental Authority approvals.
• The proposed Variation shall be deemed to be on hold pending the Engineer's instruction and
additional
or revised IFC Drawings to implement pursuant to the Variation provisions under the Contract.
• The neutral sketches or other documents are not Shop Drawings {or any other Contractor's
Document).
Such Contractor documents shall be developed pursuant a subsequent Engineer's instruction and
revised
IFC Drawings and/or specification. The Contractor's preparation of Shop Drawings shall be a sole
discretion of the Contractor.
Kindly issue a further instruction and revised drawings and/or specification for the implementation as a

confirmed Variation Order to minimize delays arising from the proposed Variations.
Thank you.
Subject: Briefing Packs Change Management Team
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of Engineer's letter ref (1) and once again records its disappointment
with
the contents therein.
The Engineer has stated in letter ref (1) that "The Engineers position remains that only the personnel
instructed through the relevant Engineer's Instructions are compensable by way of timesheet approval."
In
response to this statement, the Contractor directs the Engineer to Engineer's Instruction (EI) no 323
which
only states that "You are hereby instructed, pursuant to Clause 20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Contract_
to
appoint and implement competent and sufficient resources to address the completion of all design
items .... . " (emphasis added).
The Engineer's instruction does not clearly define which personnel are instructed to be utilised but
merely
states that competent and sufficient resources are to be implemented. Following receipt of El no 323,
the
Contractor complied with the instruction and ensured that competent and sufficient resources were
deployed to assist the Employer's Design Consultants in concluding the design.
Furthermore, the Engineer will acknowledge that usually during any design development process (which
the briefing pack process ultimately was); the presence of commercial and planning resources would
always be required . The Engineer issued the agreed briefing pack I design information development
process via letter ref (7) which stated that "Commercial team[s] to be involved [n the Change Team
Management reviews." Therefore, it is clearly evident from this statement that the Engineer understood
and acknowledged that, commercial and planning resources would be required, as part of the briefing
pack process.
Therefore based on the foregoing, the Contractor once again asserts that the Contractor having
complied
with the instruction of the Engineer is now being deprived of its entitlement under the Contract. The
Contractor, pursuant to clause 11.4, therefore insists that the Engineer assess the final value of the
Variation Order in a fair manner, taking into account all relevant circumstances but paying particular
regard to the non-obligation of the Contractor under the Contract in relation to assisting the Employer
to
complete its design.
Subject:Request of Consignment Clearance Authorisation (CCA) / Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi
Customs Authorities for Center Space Chandeliers with Steel Accessories, Fixing Devices, Support and

Restrain Members and Structural Steel Frames Chandeliers and its accessories under Bill of Lading No:
KS-1802
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to the Engineer’s Instruction No 119/119a we kindly request the Employer to issue a
Consignment Clearance Authorization (CCA) Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi Custom Authorities for
the Imported Material’s in connection with the delivery of the Center Space Chandeliers.
Please find attached herewith for your reference, the summary providing details required for the
delivery of the shipped materials.
We have just received the attached shipping documentation from our Subcontractor and we are mindful
that the shipment is scheduled to arrive at Jebel Ali Port on 26th March 2018, thus we respectfully
request you to process the requisite documentation in order to obtain the necessary exemption letter
from the Employer and to facilitate the release of the shipment from the port.

Yours faithfully,
Subject:Re: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter reference (1) we hereby provide
our response to your letter reference (2). As stated in our letter (1) the dispute itself has nothing to do
with TCAJV from a contractual perspective. However, we have a duty under the Contract as per Clause
21.3 [Payments to Sub-subcontractors] to carry out due diligence in regards to Sub-Subcontractor
payments.
We have in our previous letter, stated our rights derived from the Subcontract Agreement between us,
detailing our contractual rights, in which enable us to withhold any amounts from your Interim
Payments in connection with due sums pending by you to your domestic Subcontractors.
As stated above and within our letter (1), there are mechanisms within the Subcontract to deal with this
matter. Accordingly, you have been instructed to bring this dispute to an end, in avoidance of the works
being affected by it. Please be informed that we have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the
works and you have the obligation/responsibility to provide any information required to guarantee for
the same.
In addition to the aforementioned, we reiterate our formal request made in our letter (1) to submit all
reasonable evidence and all information/documents regarding the payment status of M/S Plus Painting.
Also, you may include in your submission any other information that you may consider relevant to this
matter.

In light of the aforementioned, you are instructed without fail to submit an “Aging Schedule” containing
the following Sub-Subcontractor’s information within (5) days of receipt of this letter:
1.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Application Details;
2.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Certification Details;
3.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Date of Invoice Issued;
4.
Status of Payment Against Individual Sub-Subcontractor’s Certifications/Invoices;
5.
Date of Payment Made and/or Due to the Sub-Subcontractor;
6.
Number of Days Payment Late (In Accordance with Payment Terms between you and the SubSubcontractor);
7.
Any other relevant documents and/or information.
In addition to Clause 21.3 [Payment to Sub-Subcontractors], we would also make reference to Clause
5.4.3 [Interim Payment - Schedule 11 Payment Terms] stating that Payment Certifications would be
subject to deductions if we believe you have failed to make payments to your supply chain. For ease of
reference, we hereby state the following:
Clause 5.4 [Schedule 11- Payment Terms]
“When agreeing or determining the amount of the interim payment to which the Subcontractor is
entitled and issuing the Interim Payment Certificate, the Contractor shall deduct from the amount
claimed by the Subcontractor any items in the Statement with which the Contractor disagrees including
items which the Contractor (acting reasonably) believes relates to:
5.4.3 - failure of the Subcontractor to make payments properly to Sub-subcontractors, suppliers to pay
for labour, Materials or equipment or a failure to provide adequate evidence of the same to the
Contractor;”
As such you are to take this letter as formal notification/notice of our intention to invoke our rights
pursuant to Clause 5.6 of Schedule 11 [Payment Terms] whereas “If the Subcontractor fails to make
payment of any amount that is due to a Sub-subcontractor in circumstances where the Contractor
determines such non-payment was not the responsibility of such Sub subcontractor, the Contractor may
(but shall be under no obligation to) pay such Sub-subcontractor directly, having given five (5) days'
notice to the Subcontractor of its intention to do so. Any amount paid to a Sub-subcontractor pursuant
to this paragraph 5.6 shall be deemed (and identified) in total 1 & 3 (as described in paragraphs 3.1.2
and 3.1.6) of any statements submitted by the Subcontractor to the Contractor after the date of such
payment. Any direct payment made by the Contractor is not intended to create and shall not create any
contractual relationship or other relationship whether reliance based or otherwise between the
Contractor and any Sub-subcontractor”.
Our decision, of a potential implementation of the aforementioned, is not one that should be taken
lightly. For the record, in case the above Clause is invoked it will in no way, release you of any of your
contractual commitments on the project nor will it also absolve you from the levying of any cost and or
delays over and above that of the payments made to your Subcontractor on your behalf.

In view of the above, it is clear that your comment made in your letter reference (2) “[…] You are
reminded that withholding a valid payment entitlement for works done under our contract constitutes a
breach of contract […]” is wholly disregarded.
In summary, we reserve all of our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and we hold you completely
culpable for all costs and delays incurred associated with your decision and/or inability to service your
supply chain.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Cloisall Disruption Claim -Wall Cladding

Dear Sir,
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Ceiling Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 3,398,952.
The claim comprises two elements, viz, ‘Labour Disruption’ in the amount of AED 2,663,352 and ‘Design
Disruption’ in the amount of AED 735,600.
Labour Disruption
You claim AED 2,663,352 as the additional cost of deploying third party labour in lieu of your own
directly employed labour over the period 27 February 2016 to 30 June 2017 inclusive i.e. in the period
beyond the original date for completion set down in Schedule 1 of the Subcontract.
A claim for Disruption however seeks to address loss of productivity in the execution of particular work
activities that arises from events for which the party against whom the claim is made is culpable. Your
claim cannot therefore be regarded and/or assessed as a Disruption claim as it neither relates to nor
mentions loss of productivity.
Notwithstanding the categorisation of this element of your submission, we have noted the following:
(i)
You have provided at Page 12,827 of the submission, a unit rate breakdown for Cloisall Skilled
Labour (Carpenter, Ceiling Fixer, Mason) of AED 13.08 per hour (for a Work Day of 10 hours).The
calculation is based, inter alia on 302 Work Days per year and as such seemingly includes for the Friday
of each week. According to UAE Labour Law however, the Friday of each week is ordinarily a mandatory

rest day; this being the case, then the number of Work Days is significantly less than the 302 that you
have used. Furthermore, the UAE Labour Law also provides that the first 2 hours of overtime (beyond
the normal 8 hours each day) is paid at the normal rate plus 25%, whereas the rate for your overtime
hours includes for an uplift of only approximately 11%. Using your per annum cost of AED 30,884, 281
Work Days per year and an uplift of 25% for the overtime hours, we calculate the rate for a 10 hour
Work Day as AED 144.25 per Work Day / AED 14.43 per hour [see Fig. 1].
A rate of AED 14.43 in lieu of AED 13.08 per hour for directly employed Skilled Labour would reduce the
alleged deficit between the cost of deploying directly employed and third party labour by approximately
AED 780,000.
(ii)
The rate of AED 14.43 per hour for directly employed Skilled Labour includes an allowance of
AED 44.84 per Work Day (AED 4.484 per hour) for Food, Accommodation and Transport (FAT) and as
such is less than the AED 5.00 per hour that you have added to the rates for EPIC and Najmat in your
valuation (Page 12,826). A rate of AED 4.484 in lieu of AED 5.00 per hour for FAT would further reduce
the alleged deficit by approximately AED 16,000.
(iii)
Amounts for FAT are also included in your claim for Prolongation (indirect time-related) Cost.
The recovery of FAT via the unit rates must accordingly be considered in the assessment of the
Prolongation Cost in order to eradicate any ‘double dipping’.
(iv)
The hours used in your valuation are derived from the ‘Manpower Subcons Summary Report –
27 Feb 2016 to 30 Jun 2017’ included in the submission at Pages 12,836 to 12,851 (the “Report”) which
for each day identifies the number of men provided by each third party labour supplier. Your claim
assumes that each person was deployed in the works for 10 hours each day. Your submission however
also includes at Pages 12,852 to 12,928 certain timesheets in which the actual hours for each person
each day are recorded by each supplier (the “Timesheets”). There is a difference of 58,014 hours
between the hours derived from the Report and those for which Timesheets are provided [see Fig 2].
(v)
Neither the Report nor the Timesheets evidence the activities on which the resources were
deployed and/or that the resources were reasonably and effectively deployed.
(vi)
You have valued the third party labour using the hours derived from the Report multiplied by
the rates in the orders (and in the case of Transguard have used an unweighted average rate); you have
not adduced any evidence of actual cost incurred.
(vii)
You have not complied with the provisions of the contract regarding sub-subcontracting and/or
the timely notification and valuation of claims.
Design Disruption

You claim AED 735,600 as the costs of Design Manager and CAD in preparing and submitting 1,226 Nr.
Shop Drawings which you allege were additional to the 1,704 Nr. Shop Drawings contemplated by the
Subcontract “due to various changes and lack of proper coordination by the Contractor”.

You have provided a Shop Drawing Log at Pages 12,929 to 12,939 of your submission, from which it
seems that you have considered all drawing revisions after R00 as additional (not contemplated) and
only necessary due to the occurrence of events for which we are culpable under the Subcontract to pay
you an additional consideration. For each additional drawing you claim additional resource time (2 hours
for the Design Manager and 6 hours for the CAD Operator / Draughtsman) that you value at the AED
150.00 and AED 50.00 per hour respectively. Again, this element of your claim neither relates to nor
mentions loss of productivity and as such cannot be regarded and/ or assessed as a Disruption claim.
Notwithstanding the categorisation of this element of your submission, we have noted the following:
(i)

You have not identified the cause for each additional shop drawing for which you seek payment.

(ii)
You have not adduced any substantiation of the resource time you allege was reasonably
required for each additional drawing and/or of the rates used in your valuation of that time.
(iii)
Amounts for design resources are also included in your claim for Prolongation (indirect timerelated) Cost and in your claim for Wall Cladding Disruption and for Gatehouses Disruption. All claims
must therefore be collectively considered in order to eradicate any ‘double dipping’.
The claims that you seek to make via this submission are not disruption claims and moreover are
deficient in several aspects. Pending your submission of the full and detailed particulars necessary to
evidence the entitlement you assert against us and of the amounts claimed, we assess the value of your
submitted claim as Nil.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's Payments to Sub-Subcontractors
Dear Sir,
Clause 21 .3.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract provides that:
"Before issuing any Interim Payment Certificate the Contractor and/or the Contractor may demand
from the Subcontractor reasonable evidence that all previous amounts paid to the Subcontractor
in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to Sub-subcontractors and/or
suppliers (less any retentions) have been paid by the Subcontractor. If the Contractor has not
received such reasonable evidence within three (3) Days of such a request, the Contractor may
(at its sole discretion) either:
(a) withhold such amounts from any further payment due to the Subcontractor; or

(b) pay such amount (or any part of such amount) directly to the relevant Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers on behalf of the Subcontractor and recover such amount from the Subcontractor
by deducting and setting-off such amount from any future payment due to the Subcontractor.".
We require you to issue a completed "Financial Disclosure Schedule" (FDS) with each
subsequent month Interim Payment Application (IPA). For example, your IPA for period ending
July 2014 shall include a FDS for April2014; and August IPA a FDS for May 2014 etc.
As we are required under the main Contract to disclose proof of payment to you and by you to
your supply chain before the Employer releases payment to us, your timely submission of the
monthly FDS will ensure prompt payment to us both.
Accordingly, we hereby request you to submit to us, within three (3) Days of receipt if this letter,
the completed Financial Disclosure Schedule for the cumulate position at 31 March 2014 showing the
amounts that were paid to you and the amounts that were paid to your suppliers and
subcontractors which should be certified by your auditor as a true record.
We have previously under cover of Letter Reference already requested full Financial Disclosure
regarding the status of Certificates and Outstanding and/or late payments to
Also you are once again reminded to issue with each monthly payment application going forward a
Financial Disclosure Schedule (FDS). For example, your IPA for period ending July 2014 shall include a
FDS for April2014; and August IPA a FDS for May 2014 etc. The issue may be compounded in case you
fail to provide the same and will be discovered in any project audit which could result in late payment
and/or penalties issued by the Employer.
Yours truly,
Subject: RE: Notice of Delay- Pending Approval on Sub-Subcontractor Variations Cost
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference {1) wherein the Subcontractor (i) informs that, due
to
cash flow issues, the Sub-Subcontractor Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Middle East {CBEME) requires
an
on-account payment of 'not less than' AED 30 million against Variations I claims submissions and (ii)
advises that the non-payment of this amount would result in further delays to the completion of the
Subcontract Works.
To be clear, pursuant to Clause 9.18.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract, 'nothing contained in the
Subcontract or any sub-subcontract awarded by the Subcontractor shall create any contractual
relationship between the Contractor and any such Sub-subcontractor(s)'. In other words, the
Subcontractor has entered a contract with the Sub-Subcontractor CBEME; hence, it is the
Subcontractor's
responsibility to assess and/or pay the Variations/claims of his subcontractor.

Notwithstanding the contractual aspect highlighted above, be reminded that the Contractor has paid
over
AED 153 million on-account to the Subcontractor to date; over AED 55 million have been paid against
Variations, over AED 82 million have been paid against acceleration claims and AED 12 million have been
paid to improve the Subcontractor's cash flow. Furthermore, over AED 120 million out of the AED 153
million paid to the Subcontractor on-account to date, have not yet been recovered by the Contractor.
In view of the financial aid provided to the Subcontractor thus far, the Contractor is perplexed at the
Subcontractor's demands and requests the Subcontractor provides reasonable evidence that these
onaccounts
payments have been passed on to the Sub-Subcontractor(s). Pursuant to Clause 21.3.3 of the
Conditions of Subcontract, the Subcontractor is requested to provide such evidence within three {3)
days
of this notice.
Subject: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor's
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/00962 with the subject matter
'Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor' and would respond as follows.
The letter itself is somewhat puzzling and nondescript as it appears to not only address two issues but
fails to
substantiate any entitlement to either cost or money in any regard whatsoever. The issues in question
being that
of the alleged late payments culminating In an unsubstantiated claim of AED 878,000.00 covering
Interests
payments of the same and that of your obvious non-payment of monies/dues to your domestic SubContractors.
For ease of understanding we will deal with these issues separately.
We wish to further place on record that we have proof as to two instances whereas you have failed to
pay your
domestic subcontractors/suppliers despite the fact that payment for these services has already been
remitted by
us to you. With reference to Wall Green International, we confirm that despite the issuance of our
Letter
Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001189 it is abundantly clear that you did not respect our instruction. You
have
failed to provide any substantiation or any update as to the payment of this account culminating in an
impromptu
meeting between your Sub-Contractor and our Sub-Contract Administration Department.
You were requested to deal with this dispute almost 2 months ago yet we find that you have no
intention to close

out the same of your own accord. We will address this issue in more detail under a separate letter,
needless to
say however we are extremely disappointed with not only your lack of urgency but also
acknowledgement as to
the gravity of the situation.
In addition to the aforementioned you were advised under cover of our Letter reference
MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001285 dated 24th March 2015 that it had come to the attention of the Employer
that you had
failed to make payment to numerous ductwork manufacturers I suppliers and the same had ceased
production
and/or delivery.
As stated within our letter this issue is highly embarrassing and cannot be entertained. We are at a
critical stage
of the venture whereas ceased ductwork deliveries will have a detrimental impact on the progress or
works. You
were requested by COB on 31st March 2015 to provide confirmation that this dispute was resolved . At
time of
writing you have failed to offer any sort of substantiation, tangible or otherwise either in the form of
letters or cheque copies and we can only assume that the issue is ongoing. We will address this issue in
more detail under
cover of separate letter.
With regards to your spurious statement that 'non-payment of our dues in a timely manner has a major
contribution to the delays to payment of our subcontractors', we refute this allegation in its entirety.
You have
· issued on numerous occasions your assessment as to the perceived interest charges applicable based
on your
interpretation of the Payment Terms included within your Subcontract. We have addressed your claim
utilising
the payment mechanisms in place within our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJVILI001247 dated 11th
March 2015.
In this instance we would attach a detailed breakdown as to our assessment that was previously relayed.
Whilst acknowledging that on 2 occasions over the course of a calendar year your payment was late, the
overall
lateness combined over the same period equated to 9 calendar days only. It was stated within our letter
that if
you wished to pursue a payment I claim for late payments it was a requirement that a revised cost be
submitted in
line with the correct pertinent information. Any value derived from the same bearing in mind the extent
of the
payment delay would be somewhat minimal and at time of writing we have received no details from
your side in
this matter so assume that it is not your intention to pursue this.

In summary we refute any allegation I suggestion of entitlement for disruption costs from PCEJV as it Is
clear that
any perceived failure In regards to payments is as a direct result of your own JV internal shortcomings.
We will
continue to pay you in accordance with Schedule 11 of your Subcontract and must insist that all future
correspondences on the subject matter are based on facts not fiction.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory however if you seek further clarification as to the
content
of the same, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We have received under cover of AECOM Transmittal Advice Form MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-TML-01448
dated 181
h March 2015, detailed particulars from the Employer Representative pertaining to alleged
non-payment by you to your 2nd tier suppliers for goods manufactured and delivered to the Project.
This issue is highly embarrassing as the notification has come directly from the Employer. The
information that has been made available to us is that your main suppliers of ductwork have now
ceased production until such time as payment is made. For ease of reference we have been advised
that;
1. Rapid Cool have no Gl Ducts in manufacture for the MTB Project as they are
awaiting payment from PCEJV
2. BK Gulf has not manufactured any Gl Ductwork for the project for 3 weeks due to
late ·payments from PCEJV.
3. China State have not manufactured any Gl Ductwork for the MTB Project for 3
months and are awaiting a AED 5,000,000.00 Payment
4. Noor AI Yemen are no longer prepared to supply Gl Ductwork to the MTB Project
due to consistent late payments by PCEJV
5. Gulf Ducts are no longer prepared to supply Gl Ductwork to the MTB Project due to
consistent late payments from PCEJV
6. Seagull are currently supplying Fire Rated Ductwork to the MTB Project but have
raised concerns/ issues with regards to the outstanding payments due from PCEJV
7. EFECO are the only company currently manufacturing & delivering Gl Duct to the
MTB Project.
The aforementioned is completely unacceptable. You have previously been advised under cover of
letter MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001189 dated 22nd Feb 2015 that such actions will not be tolerated and that
there are mechanisms within the contract to deal with the same. For ease of reference we once again
would make reference to the following Clause 21.3 of the Sub-Contract Agreement between PCEJV &
TCAJV in that;

Subject: Notice to Correct: Sub-subcontractor Performance
Dear Sir,
We hereby write pursuant to the Subcontract Agreement referenced 1) above for "Design (If any),
Supply,
Installation and the Rectification of defects therein of the Internal Flooring Stone Work Package" and
with
regards to the above mentioned subject matter.
We have been informed by you during the meeting of March 28th 2016 held in our office, that you have
instructed your screeding subcontractor to stop all screeding works in the project. Your decision has
been
taken without seeking any advice and coordination with the TCAJV Management Team or Construction
Management Teams. Your actions are jeopardizing the progress not only of the stone flooring works but
of all activities in progress at the site, and such can create delays to the project for which you will be
held
responsible.
According to Subcontract Clause 12.10.4 [Sub-subcontractor Performance], the Subcontractor shall not
suspend or terminate a Sub-subcontract without the prior written approval of the Contractor, such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Therefore in line with Sub Contract Clause 22.1
[Notice to Correct], which states that "If the Subcontractor fails to carry out any obligation under the
Subcontract, the Contractor may by notice require the Subcontractor to make good the failure and to
remedy it within a specified reasonable period,." your are required to take corrective actions
immediately.
This is for your information, record and further action to correct as a m
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Delay for Sub-Subcontractor Performance CAL REV AMI)
Dear Sir.
In reference to the above mentioned subject you are hereby notified pursuant to Conditions of
Subcontract issued during Tender and embodied in the above LOA - Appendix B- item 8 subclause
12.10.1 for the failure of your Sub-Subcontractor AI Reyami to fulfil their commitment to
fabricate the Arches 9 to 12 and PG 5 & 6 Cruciform works as per the agreed schedules.
We refer you the delivery dates comparison of AI Reyami (Refer Attachment -1) which we have
prepared as acquired from email received from you or on agreed dates during fabrication
meetings (Refer Attachment -2) implicating the aforementioned delays. Please be advised that
agreed delivery dates considered in delay calculations is from your schedules in which we
considered that there are no more issues holding you to complete the fabrication and delivery of
these elements on the site.
Further to the above delay analysis from previous deliveries. please find below remarks for the due and
to
become due deliveries as indicated above on items 5 to 7 whereas;
S:.ARCH 12 Transitions- this elements was already due since 25 July 2015 but till date 25 August 2014 no

delivery was received from esc which is delaying the erection schedule due to the
lack of manpower of your Sub-Subcontractor to fabricate this elements.
6. ARCH 13 Transitions - Delay in the above ARCH 12 elements will automatically delay the fabrication of
this
ARCH 13 elements as per the fabrication schedule sequence.
7. PG-6 Cruciform - This element must be delivered to site on 10 Sept. 2014 in order not to delay
erection. But due to the current incapacity of AI Reyami to fabricate because of
lack of manpower you have decided to complete this element using your other
Sub-Subcontractor Tiger Steel. As a consequence of your decision, shifting of
material from AI Reyami to Tiger Steel factory consume a lot of time which greatly
impact the fabrication of this element. You are reminded that this major fabrication
delay will impact the completion date of PG 6 and accordingly SG 56 erection.
Delay in the secondary girder erection has direct effect to the de-propping of first
zone.
Referring to the above delays due the poor performance of your Sub-subcontractor relating to its
incapability to provide adequate manpower to achieve their fabrication and delivery
commitments, you are hereby instructed to take the necessary action pursuant to Conditions of
Subcontract embodied in the above LOA -sub-clause 12.10.2 wherein;
12. I 0.2 The Subcontractor shall, upon receipt of the notice referred to above in clause 12. I 0. I, ensure
that
the Sub-subcontractor's performance is immediately rectified.
More over to the above presented previous and upcoming delays due to your Sub-subcontractors
poor performance which lead to your failure to fulfil your commitment for the timely delivery of the
above Erection Segments you are required pursuant to Clause 16.4.1 (b) of the Conditions of
Subcontract, to submit a revised recovery programme and supporting report describing the
revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete the
Sub-Contract Works within the Sub-Contract Time for Completion.
You are required to submit this revised recovery programme and supporting report within seven
(7) days of this request. in addition to all required submittals for construction activities at
site/factory, method statements, shop drawings and WIRs, in order to avoid further delays to the
Project.
Please note that in accordance with Clause 16.4.4 the provision of a revised programme and
supporting report is a "condition precedent" to the Sub-Contractor's entitlement to continue to be
paid for the performance of the Sub-Contract Works.
In view of the above, you are advised to take immediate steps to recover these delays. You will
be held responsible for any and all Contractor's Delay Costs and Contractor's Delay Damages
that may be inc urred by us due to the above stated delays, in line with the Subcontract Clauses
16.6.1 and 16.6.2 respectively.
Subject: Notice of Delay due to Poor Sub-Subcontractor Performance
Dear Sir,

We write to you with regards to our constant concerns pertaining to your capability to manage your
SubSubcontractor
for the works package of Fire Stopping {CHRONICLE).
Further to our aforementioned letter references, we are once again forced to place on our record of
your
poor performance for the relevant activities. {See Appendix 1) Your failure to manage your
Subcontractor
and that of its inadequate labour resources and engineering issues are completely unacceptable and will
no longer be entertained. The extent of outstanding works to be completed by your Fire Stopping
Specialist Subcontractor is extensive.
The consequences of the highlighted outstanding activities hereunder Appendix-1 have immense impact
on the Consultant approval of inspections and subsequent delays of the room handovers and ceilings
closure.
Therefore and for the record, all costs incurred by us with regards to the secondment of additional
labour
resources to supplement your insufficient workforce will be for your account and in strict accordance
with
that of Clause 10.3 {Contractors Claims) of the Subcontractor Agreement between us. The same will be
subject to 15% Overhead & Profit I Administration Charges.
Yours faithfully,
Subj ect Non-payment to Sub-Subcontractor and Fireproofing Approval Issues
Dear Sir,
We have received the letter ref. 04/IPR0/1344.1/L-1555/16 from your Fireproofing Paint Subcontractor
INTHERPRO LLC notifying us on the ongoing dispute between parties.
In the attached letter, INTHERPRO LLC has stated that, you have defaulted in their payments, engaged
3rd
parties to undertake fireproofing works which in turn jeopardizing the integrity and overall warranty of
crucial Fireproofing Works.
INTHERPRO LLC has also mentioned that, their Lawyers have been engaged to initiate further dispute
resolution proceedings.
In that regard, your Subcontract Agreement Clause 21.3.3 calls;
21.3.3 Before issuing any Interim Payment Certificate the Contractor and/or the Contractor [sic] may
demand from the Subcontractor reasonable evidence that all previous amounts paid to the
Subcontractor in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to Subsubcontractors
and/or suppliers (less any retentions) have been paid by the Subcontractor. If
the Contractor has not received such reasonable evidence within three {3} Days of such a
request_ the Contractor may (at its sole discretion) either:
(a) withhold such amounts from any further payment due to the Subcontractor; or
(b) pay such amount (or any part of such amount) directly to the relevant Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers on behalf of the Subcontractor and recover such amount from the
Subcontractor by deducting and setting-off such amount from any future payment due to

the Subcontractor.
Therefore, you are instructed to provide us the details within (3) days of receipt of this letter including
explanation to INTHERPRO LLC's attached letter and necessary evidence showing all previous amounts
have been paid to date to your subcontractor INTHERPRO LLC. Please also note, any delays, costs, loses
and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Ot her SubContractors
which may arise as a result of your fail ure to resolve the aforementioned issues shall be solely
your responsibility as per our Sub-Contract agreement Clause 16.6.
This is for your reference and urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Non Payment of Sub-Subcontractor NAFFCO and Implementation of Clause 5.6 (Schedule 11Payment Terms)
Dear Sir,
We have been approached directly by your domestic Sub-Contractor NAFFCO {Fire Fighting Installation
Specialist)
pertaining to an outstanding debt of substantial monies associated with the provision of Fire Fighting
Installation
Services on the projec_t._
We have previously under cover of Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJVILI00372S dated 3rd August 2016
already
requested full Financial Disclosure regarding the status of Certificates and Outstanding and I or late
payments to
critical Supplier and I or Sub-Contractors in your Supply Chain of which you have under cover of Letter
Reference
MTBIPCEJVITCAJVILI02698 dated 6th September 2016 have refused to do. Our response in this matter
will be
issued under cover of separate Letter however the issue of NAFFCO and that of the delays to critical Fire
Fighting
Installations is that of an immediate problem.
Whilst this dispute I lack of payment has nothing to do with the TCAJV from a contractual perspective
per se, we
do have a duty of care with regards to Subcontractor payments to Sub-Subcontractors. In this instance
we would
make reference to Clause 21.3 of the Sub-Contract Agreement between us in that;
'Before issuing any interim Payment Certificate the Contractor and/or the Contractor may demand from
the
Subcontractor reasonable evidence that all previous amounts paid to the Subcontractor in respect of
costs claimed
by the Subcontractor as being due to Sub-Subcontractors and/or suppliers {less any retentions) have
been paid by

the Sub-Contractor. If the Contractor has not received such reasonable evidence within three (3) Days of
such
request, the Contractor may (at its sole discretion) either;
(a) Withhold such amounts (rom anv further pavment due to the Subcontractor; or
(b) Pay such amount (or any part of such amount) directly to the relevant Sub-Subcontractors and/or
suppliers on behalf of the Subcontractor and recover such amount (rom the Subcontractor by
deducting and settinq-of[such amount (rom future payment due to the Subcontractor.'
In light of the aforementioned complaint from your Specialist Sub-Contractor {NAFFCO) of whom such
works are
critical to the successful completion of Milestones and subsequently that of the distinct possibility of
levying of
LADS by the Employer for failure, we are left with no option but to exercise our rights in this matter and
you are
instructed without fail to release the following information without fail by COB 28th September 2016.
1 Application Details
2 Certification Details
3 Date Invoice Issued
4 Status of Payment Against Individual Certifications I Invoices
5 Date Payment Made and I or Due
6 Nr of Days Payment Late (In Accordance with Payment Terms betw In addition to that of Clause 21.3
(Payment to Sub-Subcontractors - Conditions of Subcontract) we would also make reference to that of
Clause 5.4.3 (Interim Payment - Schedule 11 Payment Terms) in that such certifications will be subject to
deductions if we believe you have failed to make payments to your supply chain. For ease of reference;
Clause 5.4- Schedule 11- Payment Terms
'When agreeing or determining the amount of the interim payment to which the Subcontractor is
entitled and issuing the Interim Payment Certificate, the Contractor shall deduct from the amount
claimed by the Subcontractor any items in the Statement with which the Contractor disagrees including
items which the Contractor (acting reasonably) believes relates to; Sub Clause- 5.4.3 'failure of the
Subcontractor to make payments properly to Sub-subcontractors, suppliers to pay for labour, Materials
or equipment or a failure to provide adequate evidence of the same to the Contractor ...... '
As stated above the nature of NAFFCO work on the project is critical to the successful completion of
numerous contractual milestones. In light of this, the Project Management Team (PMT) has agreed that
emergency mitigation measures are to be put in place to ensure that such critical works are not
impacted by your inability to adhere to Clause 5.4.3 (Schedule 11 - Payment Terms- See Above). As such
you are to take this letter as formal notification I notice of our intention to invoke that of Clause 5.6 of
Schedule 11 (Payment Terms) whereas;
'If the Subcontractor fails to make payment of any amount that is due to a Sub-subcontractor in
circumstances where the Contractor determines such non-payment was not the responsibility of such
Sub subcontractor, the Contractor may {but shall be under no obligation to) pay such Sub-subcontractor
directly, having given five (5) days' notice to the Subcontractor of its intention to do so. Any amount paid

to a Sub-subcontractor pursuant to this paragraph 5.6 shall be deemed (and identified) in total 1 & 3 (as
described in paragraphs 3.1.2 and 3.1.6) of any statements submitted by the Subcontractor to the
Contractor after the date of such payment. Any direct payment made by the Contractor is not intended
to create and shall not create any contractual relationship or other relationship whether reliance based
or otherwise between the Contractor and any Sub subcontractor.'
Our decision to implement the aforementioned is not one that was taken lightly. Our decision in this
matter will be proven to be the right one and that which will be completely vindicated. For the record
our decision in this matter does in no way release you of any of your contractual commitments on the
project nor does it also absolve you from the levying of any cost and or delays over and above that of
the payments made to your Subcontractor on your behalf. In summary we hold you completely culpable
for all cost and delays incurred associated with your decision and I or inability to service your supply
chain with such critical payments for materials, labour, plant and I or services provided by them on the
project.
Subject: Non Payment of Sub-Subcontractor and Subsequent Intervention ofTCAJV
Dear Sir,
Despite the issuance of our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJVILI003348 dated 16th May 2016 pertaining
to outstanding payments to your domestic Subcontractor Wadi AI Jarf Tech Cont (Labour Suppler), you
have failed to comply with our instruction to make payment and confirm the same by COB 18th May
2016.
As stated within our Letter Reference MTBITCA/PCEJV ILI003348 dated 16th May 2016 the dispute itself
has nothing to do with TCA from a contractual perspective however we have a duty under the Contract
to carry out I apply due diligence with regards to Sub-Contractor payments to their Sub-Subcontractors.
We have within our previous letter on the subject matter already made reference to Clause 21.3 of the
Subcontract Agreement between us, with the same in summary detailing our contractual right with
either the withholding of such due amounts or that of the payment of such due sums to your domestic
subcontractor.
We have been approached yet again by domestic subcontractor Wadi AI Jarf Cont on this issue who
have confirmed that no payment has been forthcoming from you. For clarity, the outstanding amount
in this regard is AED 1,384,885.75 (One Million, Three and Eighty Four Thousand, Eight Hundred and
Eighty Five Dirhams and Seventy Five Fills)
As stated I intimated within our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJV ILI003348 dated 16th May 2016, you
were instructed to bring this dispute to an end by COB on 18th May 2016 From the information
currently in our possession it is abundantly clear that you have not done this and have no intention to.
In accordance with Clause 21.3 of our Subcontract Agreement please take this letter as formal
notification of our intention to exercise our right to pay the amount of AED 1,384,885.75 directly to
Wadi AI Jarf Cant on your behalf with the same being recovered from your account by way of deduction
I Set-off in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) and Clause 21.3 (Payments to
Sub-Subcontractors). The same will be subject to our standard Administration I Overhead & Profit

entitlements of 15%. In addition to the aforementioned, despite our formal request for 'Financial
Disclosure Statements' the
same has not been forthcoming. This is a contractual obligation under the Subcontract Agreement and
again it has become abundantly clear that our formal requests are repeatedly ignored. The issue is
compounded further in that your failure to provide the same will be discovered in any project audit
which could result in late payment and/or penalties issued by the Employer.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory however if you seek further clarification
regarding the same, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully
Subject:

Extension to the Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claims

Dear Sir,
We hereby write with reference to Chadwick Technology L.L.C. letters referred to above, and in
particular, to letter reference ADIA-NG-0390 dated 21 February 2018 entitled “Extension to the
Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claim – Submission no. 4” wherein Chadwick
claim for an Extension of Time (EoT) of 1,230 days to the Works along with financial compensation in
amount of AED 149,253,815 for interim prolongation costs associated with alleged delay events up to
28th September 2017.
In Chadwick’s narrative, Chadwick contends that it was prevented from starting the roofing works at the
north‐west section of the Main Roof (gridline RP5 to RP0) in line with the original plan of the approved
Subcontract Programme. Chadwick also contends that it was the Contractor’s failure to provide access
to the steel structures in accordance with Appendix 5.A of Schedule 10 and the approved Subcontract
Programme, and failure to complete the necessary steel purlin modifications to kitchen exhaust towers,
specifically at gridlines RP5‐RP4, and the Contractor’s subsequent instruction to withhold decking works
at gridline RP2‐RP0, all at the Main Roof. This, Chadwick claims, resulted in 1,230 days critical delay as of
the cut‐off date of 28th September 2017.
Chadwick follows by stating in the Executive Summary of its claim that it incurred critical delay and
disruption to its Subcontract Time for Completion and its Subcontract Programme as a result of these
delay events and is therefore entitled to an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion,
additional Costs, Loss and Expense and the right to Adjustment to the Subcontract Price. The claim
submission relies on these delay events affecting the Central Processor (CP) Area, with the main driver
of delay being the delayed access to the CP’s Main Roof.
Moreover, Chadwick asserts and considers in its claim submission that the delayed access to the Central
Processor (CP) Area is a Contractor Culpable Event. Chadwick further contends it was the Contractor
who failed in its’ obligation to provide access to the Subcontractor in accordance with Schedule 10 and
the approved Baseline Rev. 1 Subcontract Programme and Clause 10.1.

TCA-JV hereby notes that Chadwick’s previous Extension of Time (ADIA-NG-0355 dated (3rd September
2017) was for 1,040 days with interim prolongation costs claimed AED 126,903,815.00 for delay events
up to 29th June 2017 and anticipated the Completion Date with the requested extension of time as 11th
August 2018.
It is TCA-JV’s view that Chadwick Technology has failed in its various claim submissions to prove its
compliance with the Subcontract's contractual requirements as listed below. Should Chadwick believe
that this is not the case then TCA-JV welcome a response from Chadwick setting out the facts and
demonstrating that Chadwick has complied with its necessary obligations under the Subcontract.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and on a without prejudice basis, TCA-JV herewith comment below on
the substantive issues in relation to the claims submitted;
EoT Claim Comments;
We hereby note the following comments on your claim for extension of time that renders it incomplete,
non-compliant and currently unacceptable, and request that Chadwick to revise its’ submission in light
of the said comments:
Chadwick’s Programme used in the Delay Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on a programme other than the approved baseline programme, and
other than the programme which was amended by Chadwick and based on their request and later on
agreed by TCA-JV to correct the scheduling anomalies that were present on Chadwick’s baseline
programme as per Appendices.
The subcontract allows for Schedule changes provided that a compelling reason for such change is
present and justifiable (such as an incorrect links, or other major flaws), and conditions the approval of
such changes by the second party in order to accept the use of such changed programme. Instead,
Chadwick’s approach in its current delay analysis is to keep introducing changes to the programme logic,
durations and dates across each claim window in a compounded manner, which is not an acceptable
practice, neither industry wise or contractually.
Developing a claim on a programme that is constantly changing logic at each time window without any
support as to why a logic change was introduced in a claim-window (which is what Chadwick has
conducted), and without prior consent from TCA-JV, renders Chadwick’s delay analysis to be noncredible. It lacks a common base with its’ previous analysis windows and subsequently renders the
outcome to be invalid.
We also note Chadwick’s failure to follow TCA-JV’s revised programme under the HoA Agreement
(Revision 6 Programme) when Chadwick was instructed to do so (please refer to JV’s letter 17th March

2015 reference MTB/TCA/CHADWICK/L/000205) and Chadwick’s failure to provide a revised programme
of its own that copes with an updated project delivery strategy which was instructed by the Employer
and fully communicated across the entire project, and which was followed by all parties concerned.
This particular case shall be viewed in line with the contractual sub-clauses 16.3.5 and 16.5.9.
Periods and Method used to conduct Chadwick’s Time Impact Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on time windows of ‘three months’ which is larger than the
contractually stipulated ‘monthly’ intervals for interim claims, which, in addition for not being
contractually compliant, does not serve as a good representation to the overall performance of the
project as a whole during the claimed window(s).
It is also noted that the “FRAGNETS” used to describe the delay event is assuming the effects stretching
into unsubstantiated and assumed ‘future dates’ and thus creating an overly prospective impact that is
not being supported or proven to be of the factual case.
Despite Chadwick’s submission dates of these interim claims well beyond and after the delay fragnets, in
addition to the above, TCA-JV notes that the data records in Chadwick’s claim windows are not aligned
with the data records that Chadwick has reported / communicated in its weekly or monthly reports
under the same periods.
We also note other anomalies with Chadwick’s claim programme data and the progress trackers
Chadwick is reporting to the project team. In this regard, Chadwick is instructed to correct the duration
of its claim windows to fit the contractual stipulated time, and to employ the correct ‘Time Impact
Analysis’ approach, while maintaining to use the correct data records in its analysis programs as to avoid
to over-delay or stretch delay events.
Events used in Chadwick’s Claim:
Chadwick’s submitted extension of time, claims compensation for the entire project, whilst its analysis is
based on a fractional analysis that is restricted to a limited event namely ‘access delays’ in the ‘Central
Processor Roof Cladding’ areas only, whilst overlooking other events in the same area, and other events
that occurred in other project areas such as the Piers, Gatehouses, Wrappers, Infills and Skylights. In this
regard, such an abstract partial event claim made into a time window is deemed partial, incomplete and
unacceptable.
TCA-JV’s records indicate that other events in the Central Processor area, either Employer related, or
Subcontractor culpable related, were overlooked while certainly having an effect on the overall progress
and completion of the works. These events need to be incorporated into Chadwick’s analysis in order to
comprehensively allow TCA-JV to assess Chadwick’s entitlement for time and cost compensation.

Moreover, we also note that whilst the Central Processor areas were part of the initial Critical Path of
Chadwick’s approved baseline programme, other delays in other areas that happen to form a larger
percentage of the project workload rendered these areas to be critical as well, and by Chadwick
overlooking these events, their respective effects from its analysis is unacceptable as it deems the
outcome of Chadwick’s analysis to be limited, restricted, partial and incomplete.
Accordingly, Chadwick’s delay analysis needs to be revised and resubmitted as to include all known
events that affected all of the project areas of Chadwick’s scope of works, and caused by all parties, be it
Chadwick delays, Employer delays (Bulletins and Briefing Packs), Main Contractor delays, and/or other
Subcontractor delays. This is required in order to establish the net time and cost entitlement in a fair
and reasonable way to allow the parties to concentrate its efforts to draw to a net entitlement and fair
determination.
Chadwick’s Mitigation and Concurrency:
Chadwick’s extension of time requests and the associated delay analysis did not include any
consideration towards establishing mitigation measures, and it has failed to demonstrate concurrent
delays caused by Chadwick, despite both requirements being part of Chadwick’s contractual
requirement (refer you subcontract clauses and Particularly the Specification of “Program Project
Control Requirements”.)

Chadwick’s Mapping Notices against Delay Events:
Chadwick should accompany its’ time impact analysis submission with a detailed schedule of the delay
notifications that it has issued along with an allocation of the notification toward the event presented in
its’ EoT Submission. In addition, Chadwick needs to attach physical copies of the notifications
themselves to the submission.
Establishing Entitlement - The Relationship between Extension of Time and Prolongation Costs:
It is noted that entitlement to an extension of time does not automatically entitle the Subcontractor to
prolongation costs incurred due to the additional time required to complete the Works. The Subcontract
does not provide a direct link between an entitlement to an extension of time and the entitlement to
compensation for the additional time spent in completing the Works.
Despite this, Chadwick asserts an entitlement to additional payment for its prolongation and disruption
costs, pursuant to Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion] and 27.1
[Subcontractor's Claims]. These clauses do not, in fact, create any basis or grounds for additional

payment for prolongation and disruption costs as alleged. Clause 27.1 is a procedural clause concerning
the notification and submission of claims, and as such, Chadwick has so far, failed to establish any bona
fide basis or grounds for its claim. Accordingly, Chadwick must establish an entitlement to claim
additional payment for prolongation and disruption costs (or any other additional payment) by specific
reference to the Subcontract giving rise to an entitlement to an additional payment.
Upon review of Chadwick’s prolongation costs (ADIA-NG-0363 Dated 30.Sep.17) the costs submitted
should be actually incurred and calculated during the periods when the delaying events impacted the
progress of the Works, and under the various different locations of your works on site, not over the
extended duration at the end of the subcontract period. Accordingly, Chadwick’s entitlement to
additional or increased costs must be clearly linked to the actual delay event, in specifically affected
areas of the works on-site, and to the period where the actual delay was experienced.
Chadwick is thereby required to separate its resources and associated costs under prolongation to be
apportioned into the following sections of its scope of works, this to further compliment the individual
areas of its works which were, or may have been effected by different delaying events (not just relative
to Central Processor).
a.
b.
c.
d.

Central Processor
Piers & Gatehouses
Wrappers & Infill
Skylights

Upon review of Chadwick’s Staff Costs, Chadwick is further required to separate its staff resources and
associated costs under prolongation to be apportioned under the following criteria headings;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Indirect Staff
Direct Staff
Core Staff
Location Staff
Task Staff

(considered as prolongation)
(not considered as prolongation, i.e. – production related staff)
(general staff related to all the works & activities – full scope)
(specific to separate locations or sections of scope on site ‘a to d’)
(specific to individual tasks in separate locations on site)

In relation to the following heads of claim (1 & 2 below) which were submitted by Chadwick as separate
claimed amounts, these costs have not been substantiated in any format or quantitative manner.
Therefore, the JV cannot adequately assess these costs for there is currently nothing available to review
or assess. These costs are global and have no substantiated information provided to them to
demonstrate how they were calculated or justified as actual costs/claims incurred with relative
substantiation. Chadwick is to provide further substantiation in relation to these heads of claim if any
real assessment is to be carried out.
1.
2.

Disruption Costs
Escalation Costs

Chadwick’s claim fails to apply and link any purported costs to the periods where excusable and
compensable delays were actually experienced, instead referring to the total overrun period beyond the
Time for Completion (extended completion dates).
Once Chadwick establishes adequate entitlement to prolongation costs by virtue of an excusable and
compensable delay event, it is required to demonstrate that it actually suffered loss and/or expense
under such an event at the time the event occurred and under the specific location or section of works
on site.
For the avoidance of doubt, the above is not, of itself to be considered as an admission of any
entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or payment of additional Costs, nor does it
constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Reinstallation of Gatehouse Panels due to Poor Workmanship of Other Trades
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor claims that it
incurred additional costs as a result of the Other Subcontractor's Chadwick Technology LLC incorrect
positioning of the soffit panels at gatehouses nos. 8, 10, 13 and 17.
Please be advised that the Contractor forwarded the Subcontractor's claim to Chadwick Technology LLC
whose response is attached herewith (2).
The Subcontractor is kindly requested to review the contents of said letter and provide its response to
further facilitate the Contractor's ongoing review and determination regarding the Subcontractor's claim
and the Other Subcontractor's culpability for the same (if any).
Yours faithfully
Subject:Notification of Damages to Facade Paints at Pier 2 - PT Inside at Level 2D13
Dear Sir,
We write with regards to the enclosed letter received from M/S Jangho with photos evidence which is
self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the content of M/S Jangho’s letter, we regret to inform you that apparently
your site personnel have damaged some of the completed paint works on aluminium profile and steel
transoms negligently while carrying out your works. You are hereby requested to review the contents of
M/S Jangho’s letter and their intention to claim for the damages.

Meanwhile, we request you to provide a comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment on the
same within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter. Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and
back charge all the reinstatement cost and other associated cost from your account according to the
Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors) whereby you are liable for the loss and damages arising out of
your action.
Should you have any queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Engineers Instruction (EI) No. 662 – Omission of Stone Floor Tile
Installation at L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace
Dear Sir,
In regards to the above subject, we acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (4) requesting us to
confirm whether the reinstatement of these works will have a neutral Time and Cost Impact.
Consequently, in response to your query, we hereby inform you that there is no cost or time impact with
the introduction of EI No. 662. However, please be informed that there is a cost impact associated with
the works of Stone Floor Installation, subsequently to the receipt of other EI’s as described below.
In light of the above and for ease of reference we hereby provide a brief history of events:
Please note that in our submitted letter reference (3) for the Stone Floor Finish, the changes seen on the
quantities of the revised BoQ rates are related to Bulletin 103.1 and the rates have been adjusted
accordingly but are subject to agreement/approval.
Additionally please note the following:
•
You requested a material change for the Stone Floor Finishing (in all areas) from limestone to
granite via letter reference (1), suggesting 8 different stones described thereunder;
•
You issued the Engineer's Instruction No. 662 – “Omission of Stone Floor Tiling Installation at
L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace” via letter reference (2), in which you instructed the omission of the
installation of Stone Floor Tiling works at the area of the Hotel Building Terrace only. Furthermore, you
informed us that these works would be done by the relevant third party tenant as part of their fit-out
works. Please note that we have not submitted an RFVO for the omission of these works;
•
We have submitted letter reference (3) enclosing the Contract BoQ rates and the revised BoQ
rates and quantities, which also includes the area of Hotel Building Terrace, as instructed via letter
reference (1). The mentioned changes have been initiated via Bulletin 103.1 and subsequently, the
Engineer’s Instruction has been issued via EI No. 192b dated 14th October 2014. Please note that, even

though the Contract BoQ Quantities and Rates have changed as per our letter reference (3), the total
amount related to these works remained unchanged. Moreover, it is noted that to date we have not
received any confirmation from the Engineer about the mentioned changes in the Contract BoQ and
whether or not the revised quantities, rates and total amount have been accepted;
•
Bulletin 137.1 drawings have been received via Engineers Instruction EI 285A dated 22nd
January 2015 for the revised layout of L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace; comparison of changes between
Bulletin 103.1 and Bulletin 137.1 has been submitted under RFVO/0401/703-SC/061 and till date the
quantity reconciliation is on-going and an approval is pending. Please note that there is a cost impact
but no time impact for Bulletin 137.1 which is analysed in the mentioned RFVO;
•
Bulletin 204.1 latest drawings have been received via Engineers Instruction No. 561A dated 16th
October 2016 for L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace in which we confirmed that there are no changes from
previous Bulletin 137.1;
•
With letter reference (4), you have requested the reinstatement of works for Stone Floor Tilling
Installation at the area of the Hotel Building Terrace, which were previously descoped as stated above
via EI reference (2).
Upon reviewing the stone floor tile requirements at L3.0-hotel building terrace, we confirm the
following:
•
Cost
To clarify, please note that there is no cost or time impact related to Engineer’s Instruction No. 662,
which is further explained below. However, there is a cost impact, related to Bulletin 137.1, as
mentioned above.
In regards to Bulletin 103.1, an approval is pending with the Engineer for the revised BoQ submitted via
our letter reference (3). To be more specific as per our comments on the third (3rd) bullet-point above,
it is worth noting that our confirmation that there is no additional cost is strictly only for the quantities
included in our letter reference (3). For the avoidance of doubt, we kindly request the Engineer to
confirm that the revised rates included in our letter reference (3) are accepted. At this juncture, we
must emphasize that in case of a potential Variation including but not limited to the quantities for the
items described in our letter reference (3), the rates shown thereunder shall be used to evaluate it,
accordingly. In this regard, we can use Bulletin 137.1 as an example of a Variation, wherein the
quantities have been revised due to layout changes (from various stone types to only single type).
•
Time
We confirm that there will be no time impact related to Engineer’s Instruction No. 662, on the Rev 10.4
updated programme, as long as the Engineer provides the formal instruction to reinstate the omitted
works by, no later than 30th June 2018.
There is no time impact related to Bulletin 137.1.

We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter; however, should you require any
further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Professional Services Agreement – Change In The Company Name From “LLH For Healthcare
Management LLC” to “Response Plus Medical Services L.L.C.”
Dear Sir,
We write in reply to your letter reference (2), whereby you have informed us about the change of your
company name, as part of your international integration.
We hereby give our consent for the change of your company name from M/S “LLH For Healthcare
Management L.L.C.”, which is used under the Professional Services Agreement reference (1), to M/S
“Response Plus Medical Services L.L.C.”, a company established under the laws of the Emirate of Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, having its registered Trade License No. CN-1487005.
All terms and conditions remain as per the original Professional Services Agreement referred above.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Delay Notice No. 1031 - Settlement of Manholes and Pipelines along the
Dear Sir,
Perimeter of the Main Terminal Building- Unforeseeable Physical Conditions
The Contractor writes with reference to the Geotechnical Report undertaken by Robert Bird, in relation
to
the settlement of the manholes and pipelines, issued under letter ref: (6) following receipt of the NCRs
(1),
(2) and {4), as well as refers to the Contractor's previous letter ref: {3) and Engineer's letter ref: {5).
The content of the Geotechnical Report is self-explanatory. As previously advised under letter ref: {6), it
is
evidently clear that the settlement of the manholes and pipes is not attributable to the Contractor, with
the Geotechnical Report stating conclusively that inter alia " ... a review of the project specification
requirements, testing of backfill material, RFI documents and field testing records concluded that TCA JV
has met the requirements as set out by the project and agreed with the client's representatives"
The physical conditions that have contributed in causing settlement of the manholes and pipelines could

not have reasonably been foreseen. Accordingly we hereby give the Engineer notice of the same
pursuant
to Clause 12.18.2 Conditions of Contract. It is also clear that whichever of the four strategies advised of
in
the Geotechnical Report are selected by the Engineer as being the adopted method for remedying the
settled manholes and pipework, will impact upon the Contractor's ability to achieve Milestones MS09A1
(Pier 2 Taking Over), MS09A2 (Pier 3 Taking Over), MS09A3 {Pier 1 Taking Over), and MS09A4 {Pier 4
Taking Over), plus Milestones MS09B {Substantial Completion) and MS10 (Completion of NOTP).
Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby
notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(b) (iii); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Sub-Clause 12.18
'Unforeseeable Physical Conditions'.
Subject Contractor's Interim Claim for Disruption
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor has submitted an interim claim
for alleged Disruption and Acceleration.
The Engineer has undertaken an initial review of the submitted claim and has identified that the claim is
not fully detailed or substantiated.
Furthermore, we note that the Contractor's claim submission is a "Global Claim" consisting of
summarized values without any details and substantiating data, contemporary records and no
demonstration of cause and effect to support any entitlement to additional Cost.
Moreover, we note that the Contractor has included in its claim a forecast for disruption to be incurred.
These costs shall not be the subject of the Engineer's assessment and are rejected given that only costs
actually incurred should be included in the claim submission.
Additionally, we reject the Contractor's contention that as per the UAE law causation is presumed and
requires no proof. The Contractor's interpretation of the law is irrelevant with the Contractor's
obligation under the Contract.
The Contractor's submission fails to distinguish between the claimed costs under different claim
submissions. The Contractor shall clarify which submissions are superseded by the current claim in order
to avoid "double dipping".
The Engineer has identified the following (but not limited to) deficiencies which the Contractor is
required to address in order to enable us to diligently assess the submitted claim:
Deficiencies of the claim submission
1. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the Employer's culpability;
2. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the associated cost claimed to have been incurred by the Contractor; 3. The
Contractor has failed to provide evidence that it has issued notifications in accordance with the

Contract regarding the alleged disruption events;
4. The Contractor has failed to provide evidence of the mitigation measures it has implemented to
avoid any disruption;
In addition to the above deficiencies, the Engineer has also the following observations:
Observations
1. Item 2.2.1 of the Contractor's claim states - "On the basis of delay to the progress of the Works
(which the Engineer wrongly attributed to the Contractor), the Engineer instructed Contractor to
expedite progress on various occasions." This statement is general and cannot be responded to. The
Contractor is to submit details and substantiation regarding the alleged delays which have wrongly
been attributed to the Contractor;
2. Item 2.2.3 of the Contractor's claim states - "These implied instructions constitute Variations for
which the Contractor is entitled to a valuation under Clause 16.4.3 and 20.3." The Contractor is to
submit details of "these implied instructions" and evidence the reasons they are to be valued as
Variations;
3. Please explain the statement in Item 2.3.2 of the Contractor's claim regarding an "accumulation of
the "Costs" that it incurred for each individual Variation."
4. The Contractor stated that the Employer/Engineer has failed to coordinate the works with Other
Contractors. Clauses 12.11 and 12.12 of the Conditions of Contract impose an obligation on the
Contractor - not the Employer- regarding the coordination with Other Contractors. The Contractor is
deemed to have accounted for this coordination in its Contract Price.
5. The Contractor claimed that the IFC design information and Variations have been issued in a
deficient manner and the Engineer has been deficient in administrating the Contract. The Contractor
is required to provide details of the design information and Variations which have been issued in a
deficient manner and evidence how they directly caused the Contractor to be disrupted.
6. Item 2.3.13 of the Contractor's claim states - "The Contractor does not contend that every single
change arose out of matters for which the Employer is responsible. But the bulk of them did". This is
a general statement which lacks any substantiation to support it. The Contractor is to explain what is
meant by "bulk" and provides specific details to evidence that the events to which it refers had an
actual disruptive impact.
7. The Contractor provides single sided arguments, i.e. reference is made to its own correspondence
without referencing the received Engineer's responses.
8. The claim lacks any demonstration of an incurred loss, i.e. it is a globalized evaluation method.
In light of the above, the Engineer contends that the Contractor has not demonstrated an entitlement to
additional cost at this stage as it has failed to establish causality and culpability of the events which
allegedly has caused disruption.
MTC
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Notice of Delay - BIM Delays - EDI Submission

With reference to the above subject and further to the official correspondences referenced herein (in
addition to the numerous emails sent to you), we raise our concerns regarding your failure to fulfil your
contractual obligations in relation to the execution of BIM deliverables in a timely manner.
Upon reviewing your current status it is evident that the following shortfalls persist:
You have failed to provide a Track Table and planned dates of submission for your scope of
LOD400 tagged models, refer to email reminders enclosed.
You have failed to provide a QA/QC check list proposal, following the request forwarded to you
in the above correspondence (3).
You have failed to provide a sample for LOD400 tagged model.
You have failed to provide a sample for As-Built LOD500 model.
You have failed to respond and action our requirements forwarded to you via letter ref. (3) and
ref. (4).
You have failed to provide a workflow illustration of how to export native format files into DGN
format.
You have failed to provide IFC compliance certification; confirming that the software used for
modelling is compliant with the IFC 2*3 format.
You are hereby immediately required to complete the above actions and comply with your contractual
obligations by referring to:
Schedule 12 (Specifications) Section 019800 [Building Information Modelling (BIM)], Section
013300 [Submittal Procedures], Section 013113 [Contractor’s Work Coordination Responsibility], Section
017700 [Project Close Out], and Section 019500 [Requirements for Facilities Management and
Maintenance].
BIM Implementation Plan - Sub-Contractors Participation Requirements.
Be reminded that in the event you fail to demonstrate your full compliance towards the above within
twenty one (21) days from the receipt of this letter, MTB TCAJV will proceed with the required actions
on your behalf and will back charge you accordingly. Our BIM department have provided a breakdown
of projected costs based on the resourcing requirements necessary to undertake the aforementioned
tasks (see enclosure B).
In addition to the above, you shall be held responsible for any loss, damages and/or extra expense
TCAJV and/or other affected trades may incur as a result of your delays in the completion of your BIM
obligations. This includes but is not limited to the costs for TCAJV BIM Team's services incurred in
assisting, supporting, educating and even rendering your scope of work on your behalf, so as not to
hinder the BIM coordination process.
Yours truly,

Subject :

Re: Cloisall Disruption Claim – Gatehouses

Dear Sir,
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Gatehouses Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 4,016,144.
The claim comprises six elements, the largest of which (AED 3,397,251) relates to additional cost of
labour, supervision and scaffold deployed in the cladding works to 19Nr Type E Gatehouses. In this
regard you say that if the works had not been disrupted, then you would have completed 19Nr Type E
Gatehouses in 19 months by deploying 24.292 Nr men at a production rate of 3m2/man/work day. You
then say that you did (or would) take 45 Nr men to complete the same work in the same period of 19
months such that production per man per work day did (or would) fall from 3.00 to 1.62m2 and cause
you to incur additional cost. Moreover, the increase in the number of men deployed (from 24.292 Nr. to
45 Nr.) necessitated an increase in supervision (Supervisors and Foreman). You also claim for Scaffold
over the 19 month period and apply an uplift of 2% to the Cost of Labour, Supervision and Scaffold for
‘Other’ items (Surveying, Logistics, Stores, QAQC and HS).
Notwithstanding the many other deficiencies of your claim, your valuation is entirely theoretical (based
on the unsubstantiated but consistent deployment of 45 Nr. men and related supervision over an
unidentified period of 19 months) and as such is rejected. Indeed, only additional Cost actually incurred
and arising solely from disruption events for which we are culpable will be considered; and only then if
you have complied with all of your related contractual obligations (including the timely notification and
valuation of all of the alleged disruption events and the implementation of mitigation measures).
Indeed, a disruption claim is not merely a bundle of contemporary correspondence and photographs
(much of which is not overtly linked to production) appended to a text of sweeping and largely
unsupported statements asserting culpability. As noted in our rejection of your claim for Wall Cladding
Disruption Cost, the following is required to asses any claim for disruption:
(i)
A ‘measured mile’ analysis supported by sufficiently detailed and objectively verifiable
contemporary records.
(ii)
An ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ for the Gatehouse cladding works.
(iii)
A full breakdown of all BQ unit rates related to Gatehouse cladding works.
(iv)
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and Contractor culpability.
(v)
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and the effect(s) / cost(s) claimed.
(vi)
Contemporary records (capable of being objectively verified) of the work (location, quantities
and times) impacted by each of the alleged disruption events, the name, designation and role of each
person and the relevant particulars of all other resources included in the calculation of the additional
Cost claimed.

(vii)
Actual Cost (not rates) of each resource, verified as applicable by Employment contract, salary
slip, third party order, invoice and evidence of payment.
(viii)
Evidence of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
(ix)
Abatement of actual Cost for:
a.
Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of resources, supervision,
availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
b.
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) included in your
valuation of variations and other claims e.g. Prolongation Cost Claim.
c.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim as variations e.g. instructed changes in the
design and/or sequence and/or method of executing the works
d.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim that have prejudiced any related entitlement
we might otherwise have had to make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a backcharge against a subcontractor.
The other five elements of the claim are ‘spot’ type claims whereby as well as claiming AED 60,400 for
additional drawing time, you claim AED 558,492 for additional resources (principally supervision and
scaffold) that you allege it was necessary for you to deploy due to various events (e.g. incomplete work
by MEP and Glazing Contractors, interruption of works due to installation of bumper guard, rectification
of elevator shaft concrete works) that required you to re-visit and extend the duration of the cladding
works on up to 20Nr. Gatehouses areas. Again your valuation is entirely theoretical and deficient of all of
the above listed elements of a claim for disruption and as such is rejected.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Cloisall Disruption Claim -Wall Cladding

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11576/18 dated 18 February 2018
[received on 18 March 2018] regarding your Wall Cladding Disruption Claim and note that whilst you
refute our rejection of the claim, you have failed to address the deficiencies that we identified and
communicated to you via our letters referenced MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/001220 and 001266 dated 5th
February 2018 and 10th March 2018 respectively.
In this regard we again note:
(i)
The ‘measured mile’ analysis is not supported by sufficiently detailed and objectively verifiable
contemporary records. Moreover, if as you assert, the classification between Ceiling, Junction and Wall
Cladding is of no relevance (insofar as materials and/or installation criteria does not change) then why is
the unit rate for Wall Cladding almost 30% higher than that for Ceiling (& Junction) Cladding?

(ii)
You have not provided:
a.
An ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ for the Wall Cladding.
b.
A full breakdown of all BOQ unit rates related to Wall Cladding.
c.
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and Contractor culpability.
d.
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and the effect(s) / cost(s) claimed.
e.
Contemporary records (capable of being objectively verified) of the work (location, quantities
and times) impacted by each of the alleged disruption events, the name, designation and role of each
person and the relevant particulars of all other resources included in the calculation of the additional
Cost claimed.
f.
Actual Cost (not rates) of each resource, verified as applicable by Employment contract, salary
slip, third party order, invoice and evidence of payment.
g.
Evidence of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
(iii)
You have not abated actual Cost for:
a.
Subcontractor’s risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of resources, supervision,
availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
b.
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) included in your
valuation of variations and other claims e.g. Prolongation Cost Claim.
c.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim as variations e.g. instructed changes in the
design and/or sequence and/or method of executing the works
d.
Items that you have failed to timely notify and/or claim that have prejudiced any related
entitlement we might otherwise have had to make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy
a back-charge against a subcontractor
Whilst your claim submission is voluminous, size is no substitute for quality; it is of a global nature,
largely vague and its shortcomings readily evident in the few pages pertaining to your valuation and also
in your subsequent attempts to provide the further information we have requested. The single sheet of
A4 that you adduce as evidence of the (otherwise unsupported) actual cost of scaffolding deployed for
Wall Cladding is typically deficient, includes a period beyond that over which you say the disrupted Wall
Cladding Works were executed and in any event falls within the ambit of (iii) c. and d. above.
Your selective citation of the UAE law that you ostensibly interpret to support your failure to comply
with your contractual obligations regarding the timely notification and valuation of claims must of
course be read in the context of the entire law. In this regard we note the following provisions of the
UAE Civil Code, relating to the status of the terms and conditions to which the parties to a contract have
expressly agreed
Article 243(2)
With regard to the rights (obligations) arising out of the contract, each of the contracting parties must
perform that which the contract obliges him to do

Article 265(1)
If the wording of a contract is clear, it may not be departed from by way of interpretation to ascertain
the intention of the parties

In summary, we are confident in our rejection of your claim and that an impartial third party would
similarly find your claim lacking in the fundamental elements and detail necessary to make any award.
We therefore maintain our view that your submitted claim has no merit and of our valuation of it as Nil.
We shall respond to you separately regarding the other claims that you have submitted for alleged
disruption that we have also assessed as lacking in the fundamental elements and detail necessary to
make any award.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Backcharge Notification – February 2018
Dear Sir,
We write in regards to the above subject matter and enclose an updated list of backcharges along with
the supporting documents for your review and attention.
Pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], we hereby
confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts including but not limited to the enclosed, from your
Interim Payments accordingly. The basis of these charges is mainly derived either from your request to
supply materials and services on your behalf or your failure to proceed with your obligations in
connection with your Subcontract Works.
In addition, we shall backcharge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
12.12.4 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors], whereby you are liable to the Contractor for any
claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs arising out of your failure
to perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Out of Tolerance Steel to Grid line- E53 North lnfill
Dear Sir,

The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor shares its view that
'the
steel has not deflected as anticipated' and, whilst providing a simple recollection of pictures, claims that
the skylight frame cannot be fitted in line with the adjacent frames.
Firstly, the Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor that it is an integral part of its scope to
'make due allowance for previous trades tolerances which may effect the Subcontract Works'.
Moreover,
the roof cladding Specification 074101, Clause 4.7 [Movement and Deflection] and Clause 13.2
[Tolerances] clearly state that the roofing works shall allow for the building tolerances, deflections,
changes in dimension etc. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has not explained why the actual
deflection of the steel structure could not have been reasonably foreseen on the Effective Date and
therefore would be over and above the aforementioned contractual obligations.
In addition to the above, it is noted that the Subcontractor's letter (1) does not provide the minimum
level
of detail (such as a report with as-built surveys) that enable the Contractor to assess this further. Should
the Subcontractor be of the opinion that the actual movement of the steel structure is beyond any
permissible deviation; the Subcontractor may submit full detailed particulars to the Contractor
demonstrating its entitlement. Meanwhile, the Subcontractor is requested to advise its proposals to
achieve the project requirements for appearance and fit as specified in the Contract Documents.
Subject Clause 27.1.1- Delay Notice No. 1012
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1} wherein the Contractor submitted Delay
Notice No. 1012 regarding alleged delays to Contractor's PCA Pit Works due to the Inaction and/or
Outstanding Works of the Employer's Other Contractor (L&T).
The Engineer records that the submitted Delay Notice is not in accordance with Clause 27.1.1 of the
Conditions of Contract as it was not provided within the required 28 days from the date the Contractor
became aware of the alleged delay event.
Moreover, the information included in the above correspondence is inaccurate and doesn't represent
the actual situation. The enclosed summary status provides evidence of formal handover of 10 PCA Pit
and photographs for two PCA Pits that have been handed over lately (25.1 and 44.1}.
The Engineer highlights the Contractor's obligation to submit a fully detailed claim in accordance with
the requirements of Clause 27 .1.5 within 42 days from the date of the events which allegedly gave rise
to the alleged delay. Furthermore, the Contractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in
accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within 28 days in order to enable us to review any entitlement the
Contractor may have for additional time and/or cost.
In addition, the Contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delays as required under Clause 16.5.3 of the Conditions of Contract.
Compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential as t his will form part of the basis
of
the Engineer's assessment of the Co ntractor's submitted delaying events.

Subject:

Notice to Correct

Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous numerous correspondences regarding your failure to proceed with the
works accordingly, described hereunder and we hereby inform you the following.
Despite our numerous reminders and correspondences, you have not improved your work performance
and have not provided sufficient support to the project. At the time of writing this letter, you have failed
your Contractual Obligations to manage your works which consequently puts the Project’s Milestones at
risk.
In view of the above, you are informed that the situation is affecting the performance and obligations of
the Contractor under the Contract. Consequently, if you do not take all appropriate measures to rectify
your failures immediately, you will be held liable for the consequences arising out of such failures
pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Therefore, in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and take action for
the following issues:
1.
SS Cladding in the Mock-Up has to be completed immediately. According to your program of
works which was submitted via your letter reference PML-AA-MTC-LETTER-2018-0009-1 dated 13th
March 2018, the completion date was 7th March 2018 but you failed to complete accordingly. You are
now strictly expected to complete these works by 28th March 2018.
2.
You are instructed to immediately start and complete the Cladding works in P4 which have to be
done in parallel with the works executed in the Mock-Up.
3.
It has come to our attention that the procurement of cladding materials might not have
commenced yet. There is absolutely no excuse that can be given as to why all of the mentioned
materials are not available on site to date. You are hereby informed that since the cladding materials
have been approved on 17th January 2018 via Material Submittal reference MS-1437, you were
expected to start the procurement immediately on the stated date; your failure to do so in this regard is
noted. In the event whereby the aforementioned proves to be truthful and you indeed have not
commenced the procurement of the said materials, you will be held fully responsible for any delays.
Consequently, you will be held fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such failure and the
associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under the Contract with
the Employer. You are therefore instructed to provide all documentation from the factory, within 7 days
of receipt of this letter, to verify the status of the said materials.

Moreover, in the event that you are unable to provide the required information within 7 days of receipt
of this letter, we will place a QC monitor at your factories to ensure that the products are in fabrication
and meet the Project Requirements. Please note that any and all costs related to the abovementioned
will be charged to you pursuant to Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].
In view of the above, you are informed that we and the Engineer will take appropriate action to ensure
that the procurement of materials has indeed commenced. Hence, you are informed that next week, we
will visit your supplier’s factory to verify whether the materials are in fabrication or not. Consequently,
you are requested to arrange a suitable time and day next week for the said visit of the Contractor’s and
the Engineer’s representatives.
4.
The lack of manpower is also evidenced in the Project, which you have previously been
instructed to increase and take remedial measures but failed to do so. Please note that your failure to
use the required resources as instructed constitutes a breach of Contract. Consequently, your attention
is drawn to Subcontract Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] which sets out your obligations as:
"8.1.2 The Subcontractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that it completes the Subcontract
Works, and each and every part of the Subcontract Works, in such manner and in such time so as to
allow the Contractor to comply with any obligations under the Contract … The Subcontractor shall
neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of the Contractor or other subcontractors. The
Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works as the Contractor
may reasonably instruct... The Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources
accelerate its performance, work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as
necessary to maintain progress of the Subcontract Works.",
Please note that there is a Royal visit on 1st April 2018 and that GH 42 and GH 45 have to be completed
by then. Also, note that the Testing and Commissioning Milestones for Pier 4 are fast approaching. You
are therefore instructed to comply with the instruction discussed herein and proceed expeditiously and
without delay with all required resources to complete the works.
Your attention is also drawn to your submitted Programme of Works via your letter reference PML-AAMTC-LETTER-2018-0009-1 dated 13th March 2018, in which you provided the Milestone dates for
completion. Please note that you are already failing to meet the dates which you provided i.e. Pier 3
completion date was meant to be completed by 19th February 2018 and Pier 4 completion date as per
your programme is fast approcaching which is 27th March 2018.
You are therefore instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to ensure that all
available resources are deployed on site within 48 hours of receipt of this letter. Be informed that in
case you fail to comply with this instruction, we will have no other option than to take all necessary
measures to deploy all required resources on your behalf, which you will be backcharged accordingly as
per Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].

5.
The delay in submitting all required shop drawings as per your Contractual Obligation is also
noted. You are therefore instructed to submit all shopdrawings related to these works, immediately.
6.
You previously requested additional scaffolding from us, which we have provided; however, you
refused to use the scaffolding provided. As a result, you are informed that the provision of scaffolding
(approved as per the HSE requirement), is under your responsibility and you are required to provide it
accordingly. Furthermore, note that you will be backcharged for the scaffolding purchased by us on your
behalf.
We hereby inform you that if action is not taken as stated above, you will be in breach of the
Subcontract provisions in accordance with but not limited to Clause 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations] due
to the foregoing. You are further informed that we will no longer tolerate your conduct in respect to this
matter which may cause delays to the Subcontract Works for which you shall be held solely responsible.
To conclude, we summarize below the actions required to be taken by you to mitigate the mentioned
delays:
•
Complete SS Cladding works in the Mock-Up immediately;
•
Start and complete Cladding works in P4 immediately;
•
Provide proof that procurement of cladding materials has commenced;
•
Arrange a meeting next week at your supplier’s factory for our and the Engineer’s
representatives, to inspect the fabrication of the cladding materials;
•
Increase your manpower and all required resources immediately and within 48 hours of receipt
of this letter;
•
Ensure GH 42 and GH 45 works are completed before the Royal Visit on 1st April 2018;
•
Submit all shopdrawings immediately;
•
Scaffolding material is your responsibility and shall be provided by you.
In view of the above, we hereby give you a Notice to Correct under the Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice
to Correct] to expedite the Subcontract Works immediately. At this juncture, we must emphasize once
more that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Engineers Instruction No. 662 – Omission of Stone Floor Tile Installation at L3.0 Hotel Building
Terrace
Dear Sir,

With regards to the above subject, we acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (1) requesting us to
confirm whether the re-instatement of these works will have neutral Time and Cost Impacts.
Please be informed that in our submitted letter reference (3) for the Stone Floor Finish, the changes
seen on the Quantities of the revised BoQ rates, have been quantified up to Bulletin 103.1 and the rates
have been adjusted accordingly but are subject to agreement/approval.
Upon reviewing the stone floor tile requirements at L3.0, we confirm the following:
•
Cost - Included in the revised BoQ but subject to agreement/approval;
•
Time – We confirm that there will be no time impact, as long as the Engineer provides the
formal instruction to reinstate the works by the end of June 2018.
We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter; however, should you require any
further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Final Assessment of Total Cost Incurred up to 31st October 2017

Dear Sir,
Following several submissions and numerous meetings all referenced above regarding the auditing of
your submission of “Total Costs Incurred to 31st October 2017”, we hereby inform you that we have
concluded our final assessment and have enclosed a detailed breakdown for your information and
record.
Please note that the assessment was done based on two (2) categories, Category (1) Applied Summary
and Category (2) Payment Summary;
1.
Applied Summary – This is an Assessment based on the actual proof of Invoices that have been
verified as authentic and are related to the MTB Project (refer to items 3.1 to 3.12 on the summary
page).
Item 3: Materials - There is a significant variance due to 8,850m2 of duplicated glass as well as
the actual verified MIR quantities that include 20% Wastage.
Item 5: Project Management Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 6: Design & Engineering Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 9: Site Installation Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 94% % applied to
the total claimed amount.

Item 10: Production Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 95% % applied to the
total claimed amount.
2.
Payment Summary – This is an Assessment based on the actual proof of Payments that have
been verified despite the fact that Al Ghurair employed other facilities to pay for services and materials
for the project.
Item 11: Hired Labour Supply - The variance is due to fact that there is no link of Payments to
Invoices and no breakdowns of cheques have been provided.
Item 13: Materials - There is a significant variance due to 8,850m2 of duplicated glass as well as
the actual verified MIR quantities that include 20% Wastage.
Item 15: Project Management Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 16: Design & Engineering Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 19: Site Installation Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 94% % applied to
the total claimed amount.
Item 20: Production Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 95% % applied to the
total claimed amount.
We look forward to receiving your confirmation on the assessed amount in order to move ahead with
signing off of the Framework Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (2) above, whereby you appear to show a disapproval of our
“Monthly Advance Payment” forwarded to you via our letter reference (1) above. After reviewing your
mentioned letter, we would like to express our regret to the content thereunder.
As a gesture of goodwill, we have proceeded with the said “Monthly Advance Payments”, in an effort to
assist you financially. At this juncture, we must emphasize that these payments have no correlation with
your prolongation cost submissions and these two things should be dealt independently.
Taking this opportunity, you are reminded that we have audited your prolongation cost submissions and
have forwarded the same to the Engineer for their determination, in line with the Subcontract
Agreement. Please be informed that the Contractors Determination you seek related to the
Prolongation Cost and Extension of Time is subject to the Engineer’s Assessment and Determination
pursuant to Clauses 11.4.3 and 11.4.4 [Determinations] of the Subcontract.
In regards to your comment about a potential dispute, it is your prerogative to issue a dispute notice
and follow the arbitration route. The Subcontract Agreement is clear as to the procedures in place which
need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance of a Dispute Notice and under which
circumstances it can be issued. Thus, in the event of any potential dispute in relation to the foregoing,

resolution of the same will be in strict accordance with that of Clause 27.3 [Dispute Resolution] which
forms an integral part of the Subcontract Agreement between us.
We hope that the above clarifies our position in the matter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Cloisall Disruption Claim -Wall Cladding

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11576/18 dated 18 February 2018
[received on 18 March 2018] regarding your Wall Cladding Disruption Claim and note that whilst you
refute our rejection of the claim, you have failed to address the deficiencies that we identified and
communicated to you via our letters referenced MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/001220 and 001266 dated 5th
February 2018 and 10th March 2018 respectively.
In this regard we again note:
(i)
The ‘measured mile’ analysis is not supported by sufficiently detailed and objectively verifiable
contemporary records. Moreover, if as you assert, the classification between Ceiling, Junction and Wall
Cladding is of no relevance (insofar as materials and/or installation criteria does not change) then why is
the unit rate for Wall Cladding almost 30% higher than that for Ceiling (& Junction) Cladding?
(ii)
You have not provided:
a.
An ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ for the Wall Cladding
b.
A full breakdown of all BoQ unit rates related to Wall Cladding
c.
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and Contractor culpability
d.
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and the effect(s) / cost(s) claimed
e.
Contemporary records (capable of being objectively verified) of the work (location, quantities
and times) impacted by each of the alleged disruption events, the name, designation and role of each
person and the relevant particulars of all other resources included in the calculation of the additional
Cost claimed
f.
Actual Cost (not rates) of each resource, verified as applicable by Employment contract, salary
slip, third party order, invoice and evidence of payment.
g.
Evidence of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event
(iii)
You have not abated actual Cost for:
a.
Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of resources, supervision,
availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
b.
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) included in your
valuation of variations and other claims e.g. Prolongation Cost Claim.

c.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim as variations e.g. instructed changes in the
design and/or sequence and/or method of executing the works
d.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim that have prejudiced any related entitlement
we might otherwise have had to make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a backcharge against a subcontractor
Whilst your claim submission is voluminous, size is no substitute for quality; it is of a global nature,
largely vague and its shortcomings readily evident in the few pages pertaining to your valuation and also
in your subsequent attempts to provide the further information we have requested. The single sheet of
A4 that you adduce as evidence of the (otherwise unsupported) actual cost of scaffolding deployed for
Wall Cladding is typically deficient, includes a period beyond that over which you say the disrupted Wall
Cladding Works were executed and in any event falls within the ambit of (iii) c. and d. above.
Your selective citation of the UAE law that you ostensibly interpret to support your failure to comply
with your contractual obligations regarding the timely notification and valuation of claims must of
course be read in the context of the entire law. In this regard we note the following provisions of the
UAE Civil Code, relating to the status of the terms and conditions to which the parties to a contract have
expressly agreed
Article 243(2)
With regard to the rights (obligations) arising out of the contract, each of the contracting parties must
perform that which the contract obliges him to do
Article 265(1)
If the wording of a contract is clear, it may not be departed from by way of interpretation to ascertain
the intention of the parties
Arbitral tribunals and the courts will therefore ordinarily apply the agreed terms and conditions of
contract if the wording and intention is clear.
In summary, we are confident in our rejection of your claim and that an impartial third party would
similarly find your claim lacking in the fundamental elements and detail necessary to make any award.
We therefore maintain our view that your submitted claim has no merit and of our valuation of it as Nil.
We shall respond to you separately regarding the other claims that you have submitted for alleged
disruption that we have also assessed as lacking in the fundamental elements and detail necessary to
make any award.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (2) above, whereby you appear to show a disapproval of our
“On Account Monthly Advance Payment” forwarded to you via our letter reference (1) above. After
reviewing your mentioned letter, we would like to express our regret to the content thereunder.
Be informed, that as a gesture of goodwill, we proceeded with the said “On-Account Monthly Payment”
in an effort to assist you financially. Consequently, the fact that you seem to disapprove this payment
has nothing to do with the fact the Engineer has not released nor approved anything related to your
prolongation costs submission. The “on account payment” and the Engineer’s assessment are two things
that should be dealt independently. Your obligation under the Subcontract Agreement pursuant but not
limited to Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] is to take all reasonable steps to ensure that you
complete the Subcontract Works and our obligation is to take all reasonable steps to ensure that you do
so, which we have indeed taken and continue to take to ensure the smooth progress of the works.
Taking this opportunity, you are reminded that we have audited your prolongation costs submission and
have forwarded the same to the Engineer for their assessment. Please be informed that the approval of
anything related to the Prolongation Costs and Extension of Time is subject to the Engineer’s approval
pursuant to Clauses 11.4.3 and 11.4.4 [Determinations] of the Subcontract. Therefore, the approval of
your submission by the Engineer is still pending, however, that has not hindered us in assisting you
financially.
Notwithstanding the above, you are also informed that your submission of prolongation costs and
Extension of Time is not in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract. In order to assist us and
the Engineer in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, you are required to submit a Claim
as per the provisions of the Subcontract Agreement. Consequently, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order for a determination to be made.
In view of the above and without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement related to
this matter, you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the Subcontract to provide all information
and evidence that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate any alleged delays as required
under the Subcontract Agreement including evidence and/or proof of loss.
In regards to your comment about a potential dispute, the Subcontract Agreement is clear as to the
procedures in place which need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance of a Dispute
Notice. Thus, in the event of any potential dispute in relation to the foregoing, resolution of the same
will be in strict accordance with that of Clause 27.3 [Dispute Resolution] which forms an integral part of
the Subcontract Agreement between us. Accordingly, you are required to give notice (a Dispute Notice)
of the dispute and thereafter enter into discussions with us in an attempt to settle the dispute. In the
event we could not amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the matter to arbitration
pursuant to Clause 27.3.2. Note that arbitration is not an economic form of dispute resolution, in which
both Parties are incurring substantial legal and specialist fees.
We hope that the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance payment
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000537 dated 6th March
2018, received on lOth March 2018.
The Contractor appears to be offering an "On Account Monthly Advance Payment" however
please be advised that we have not made such an application.
Any advance payment which is related purely to the value of our original Subcontract Price is
clearly not of any economic benefit to us and will not assist in financing our works or easing any
financial constraints imposed by our Banks.
The completion date for our Subcontract Works, in accordance with our original Subcontract,
was 27th February 2016, over two years ago and is in delay for reasons, which are not
attributable to our actions or lack of action. Expenditure on our Subcontract Works is clearly in
excess of the original Subcontract Price and our current cash-flow situation is negative, even
with previous "on account payments" and the proposed Amendment Agreement No.3.
We have submitted countless estimations of prolongation costs as requested by the Contractor
and the Engineer, supported by claims for costs associated with extensions of the Subcontract
time for completion. Our claims have not even received acknowledgement of receipt let alone a
response pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract.
We very much regret that if unconditional payment of our claims is not made soon we shall be
forced into a position whereby our works will be affected. We therefore urge your swift
settlement of our claims for the benefit of all concerned with the project since failure to do so
may force us to take our dispute to arbitration.
Subject: BIM Progress - Notice of Delay
Dear Sir,
Mr. Nicholas Galati, Project Director
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
We refer to above subject and referenced letters (1 and 2), please find our responses below:
• We have noticed in your reply (1) that you have ignored the main objective of our letter (2) that was
highlighted through four clear points and requirements, and instead you expanded in showcasing the
day to
day correspondences which forms the common conducts in the industry, where in fact all the events
that
were mentioned in your letter were originally done to help and support an accurate final BIM
deliverable.
• All your comments received via letter 1 are considered part of coordination requirements and models
development; refer to BIM Implementation Plan pages 2 and 3 of 8 in the contract, as well as to clause
K.3

point 6 in the EDI.
• We reiterate that the requested deliverables in points 2 and 4 that witnessed your delivery delays
listed in
our letter {2) are still required to be actioned by Chadwick, and that they are not affected by the
changes
highlighted in your letter 1.
• Your delay in providing the LOD400 models was highlighted back in November 2016, (ref. 4), where
the
models submission was and still falling way behind the submission of the related shop drawings which is
contradicting with the project specifications. An example of this delay is the central processor's infill and
wrapper models which are not submitted up to this date.
• The Data Drops which were requested via letter 3 are also still required to be actioned by Chadwick,
and
that they are not affected by the changes highlighted in in your letter 1.
• In addition to the above, you are reminded to ensure full commitment to the submission dates of the
LOD500 as-built BIM models in order to avoid further delays.
Your action regarding the above is urgently required.
Yours truly,
Stuart Matthews
Subject Roof Site Hose Testing Requirements
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor is requesting to
provide them with the test locations for all roof cladding types.
The Engineer reiterates its position conveyed via correspondence (2) that specification section MTC-401074101_07 Roof Cladding Package clause 5.8.1 imposes no obligation on the Engineer to provide to the
Contractor the test locations in advance of the completion of the works.
The Contractor is required to offer completed works in accordance with the Contract that are ready to
be
tested for the site hose testing, together with the information regarding the future test dates and
locations and a log indicating the status of SOR/MIR/WIR/MIR that should be presented by the
Contractor and for obtaining satisfactory approvals before the hose testing. In supporting progress the
Engineer may choose indicative locations a week in advance in order for the Contractor to be prepared,
while the exact location of the joints to be tested will be selected by the Engineer on the actual day of
the
test.
It is the Contractor's responsibility to provide completed works in accordance with the Contract, ensure
that the tests comply with the project specification and comply with MTC-401-074101_07 Roof Cladding
Package section 5, item 5.8 as well its Contractual obligations under clause 17 of the Condition of
Contract.

Yours faithfully,
Subject:Request of Consignment Clearance Authorisation (CCA) / Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi
Customs Authorities for Center Space Chandeliers with Steel Accessories, Fixing Devices, Support and
Restrain Members and Steel Frames under Bill of Lading No: KS-1801
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to Engineer’s Instruction No 119/119a we kindly request the Employer to issue a Consignment
Clearance Authorization (CCA) Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi Custom Authorities for Imported
Material’s in connection with the delivery of the Center Space Chandeliers.
The summary details of the shipped materials required for this delivery are attached herewith for your
reference.
We have just received the attached shipping documentation from our Subcontractor and we are mindful
that the shipment is scheduled to arrive at Khalifa Port on the 13th March 2018, thus we respectfully
request you to process the requisite documentation in order to obtain the necessary exemption letter
from the Employer and to facilitate the release of the shipment from the port.

Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Delay in CP L4.0 North and South Skylights – Outstanding Works by Other Trades

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter with ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11545/18 pertaining your
statement that certain activities have been allegedly preventing access to your works and we hereby
respond as follows:
1.
Your Statement:
“Scaffolding erected for wooden partition.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect and a misleading statement. This wooden partition belongs to the Pier 2 Area and is
not related to the aforementioned works in the Central Processor which you have been instructed to
proceed (See Attachment -1).
2.
Your Statement:
“Storage material by other trades.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. Please note that the storage has been arranged by you in the
aforementioned area and caused blockage to your own team while carrying out your works. Therefore,
as seen in the enclosed email, it was your own materials (Attachment-2). It is also worth mentioning
that as a gesture of good will, our site team assisted you to remove the materials. However, you did not
take any action for two (2) days and have ignored our notifications to proceed with the erection of your

scaffolding. Consequently, M/s China State erected their scaffolding to proceed with the Skylight
painting works.
In order to make it perfectly clear and correct such inaccurate allegation of “delay by others” in the
future, you are required to properly review and discuss with your own project team before
communicating with us.
You are hereby reminded to coordinate your works with the Contractor and other Subcontractors
pursuant to Subcontract Clauses 12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
3.
Your Statement:
“Flooring works ongoing.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is another misleading statement and denial of your own commitments. Once again, you are hereby
reminded to coordinate your works with other Subcontractors as per Subcontract Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] including the flooring
Subcontractor. Your intention to use other Subcontractor’s work as an excuse for your own delays is not
accepted and is actually caused by your lack of manpower and inadequate supervision, as elaborately
discussed in previous correspondences.
Conclusion:
In light of the above, in the event whereby you consider that delays are caused on site due to the
unsubstantiated allegations provided in your letter, it is your Contractual right to inform us accordingly.
Nevertheless, you are informed that it is a prerequisite of the Subcontract Agreement, that all alleged
delays have to be substantiated as per the provisions provided thereunder. Therefore, in order for us to
evaluate any alleged delays, you are requested to provide details demonstrating how these delays are
affecting your Programme of Works by providing supporting evidence and delay analysis. Moreover,
pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each alleged delay
event has to be provided, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and
demonstrating the Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays.
Therefore, we hereby remind you that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by
us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned
activities will be solely your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 [Other Contractors
and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: PCEJV Notification of Dispute - Generator Exhaust System Scope and
Dear Sir,

We acknowledge receipt of your letter reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJ?/ L/02879 dated 15th October 2016,
a follow up to your correspondence reference MTB/PCEJV /TCAJV / L/02666 dated 25th August 2016
being that of a response to our previous communication MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/003936 dated 22"d
September 2016 on the subject matter 'Generator Exhaust System Scope and Instruction to Proceed Notification of Dispute', and would respond as follows to the contents within.
The issue of scope ownership associated with the Generator Exhaust System is that of a protracted
debate that has lasted over four months, commencing with that of the instruction issued under the
Subcontract Conditions, culminating in that of verbal confirmation from PCEJV that the original
instruction of these works issued under Letter Reference MTB/ TCA/PCEJV/L/003370 on 21st May 2016
was rejected on the basis that despite substantiation being given by us over a plethora of
correspondences, the instruction to proceed would not be actioned as it were perceived by you that
such works did not form part of your contracted works. The rejection of this instruction being that of a
clear breach of the Subcontract Agreement between us, by you.
Nevertheless, due to the receipt of your Formal Notification of Dispute in this regard, we are again
compelled to further substantiate our assessment of the same and present them so as to enable such
resolution in the matter to be achieved.
Resolution of the same will be in strict accordance with that of Clause 27.3 (Dispute Resolution) of the
Conditions of Subcontract which form an integral part of the Subcontract Agreement between us.
For the record we disagree with your allegation that a dispute had already been acknowledged over the
Generator Exhaust System. You have in attempt to bypass your contractual obligations as highlighted in
our Letter Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/003936 dated 22"d September 2016 by taking out of context
OL!r statement that ' .... due to the receipt of your correspondence in this regard we are in the process
of formalising our response, however the requirement of the disputed scope in question .... .'. Our
response in this matter was based on your argumentative, debated and wrangled position on the
matter, in short disputed. In this instance all that highlighted was your dispute in the matter I refusal to
comply with the Subcontract Conditions. In summary we completely reject your allegation that 'the
Contractor that its failure to acknowledge a legitimate Notice of Dispute under the Subcontract
Agreement, is in contradiction of its obligation to use all reasonable endeavours to settle the dispute
within 30 days of the dispute notice ... .'. It would appear from your correspondence and allegations in
this matter that it is you that is in contradiction of its obligation to use such endeavours to settle such an
agreement prior to issuance of Dispute Notice.
Nevertheless, In accordance with that of Clause 27.3.1 an interim meeting will be confirmed under cover
of separate letter whereas each party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a representative who
has authority to settle the dispute or difference at such a dispute meeting. In accordance with the
aforementioned Clause such a meeting will take place on or before 2ih September 2016, the same being
30 days after receipt of your Letter
Reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/02666 dated 25th August 2016 (Received 28th August 2016).
Please find attached our determination in this matter of which the same clearly clarifies our position.

If you seek further clarification to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Subject: Generator Exhaust System Scope - PCEJV Failure to Follow Dispute Notice Procedure
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB/PCEJVITCAJVILI02666 dated 251h August 2016
on the subject matter 'Generator Exhaust System Scope and Instruction to Proceed- Notification of
Dispute', and would respond as follows to the contents within.
The Subcontract Agreement between us is clear as to the procedures in place which need to be adhered
to and implemented I followed prior to any issuance of a Dispute Notice. It is clear from your Letter
Reference MTB/PCEJV ITCAJV ILI02666 of 21st August 2016, that it is your intention to bypass such prerequisites subsequently attempting to accelerate the issuance of a Dispute Notice without first following
the direction of the Subcontract Agreement. This is completely unacceptable and will not be
entertained.
As a matter of course and prior to any Dispute Meeting being convened following the issuance of a
Dispute Notice, a number of procedures need to take place and as such are condition precedence.
(1) You are to formally submit your fully documented Final Submission as to why you believe, in this case
that the Generator Exhaust System does not form part of your contracted Scope of Work on the Project.
Such a document when issued should clearly state wit hin the t it le that the same is that of your 'Final
Submission' to prevent such ambiguity going forward.
(2) Upon receipt of your fully documented final submission, we under Clause 11.4.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract will issue our final assessment and determination within 28 days of the date of receipt of
such particulars (Final Submission). Such Final Submission and that of Final Assessment I Determination
being subject to previous consultations and I or discussions between us being completely exhausted. For
ease of reference Clause 11.4.1 states; 'Whenever the Subcontract provides that the Contractor shall
proceed in accordance with this Clause 11.4 to agree or determine any matter, the Contractor shall
consult with the Subcontractor in an endeavour to reach agreement. If an agreement is not reached
within twenty eight (28} Days (or such other period as the parties may agree}, the Contractor shall make
a fair determination strictly in accordance with these conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the parties as set out in the
Subcontract'.
(3) Following receipt of such a Determination from us in this matter, you if still not in agreement with
the same are to issue a notice of dissatisfaction within 21 days from receipt of such a Determination.
The aforementioned being in strict accordance with that of Clause 11.4.2 of the Conditions of
Subcontract, which for ease of reference states; 'The Contractor shall give notice of each agreement or
determination, with supporting particulars.
The Subcontractor shall give effect to each agreement or determination unless the Subcontractor
gives notice to the Contractor of its dissatisfaction with a determination within twenty one (21} Days
of receiving it. Either party may refer the dispute for resolution pursuant to Clause 27.3 (Dispute
Resolution). Pending the resolution of any dispute in accordance with Clause 27.3 (Dispute
Resolution), the parties shall give effect to the Contractors Determination'.

(4) If such a Determination is subject to the issuance of a Notice of Dissatisfaction as highlighted within
Item 3, you can than issue the matter for resolution under that of Clause 27.3.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract (Dispute Resolution) and as stated within the same a Dispute Meeting will be convened
within thirty days (30) from receipt of your notice. For ease of reference; ,In the event of any dispute,
difference, controversy or claim between the parties arising out of or in connection with or relating to
the Subcontract, representatives of the parties shan within thirty {30} Days of written notice from one
party (the Notifying Party) to the other party (a Dispute Notice) hold a meeting (a Dispute Meeting) in an
effort to resolve the dispute or difference. Each party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a
representative who has authority to settle the dispute or difference at the Dispute Meeting'.
It is clear from the correspondences on file that you have failed to adhere to such procedures and I or
protocols and as such are attempting to accelerate this issue to dispute levels without issuing the
relevant notices. In summary you are instructed by return to formally submit your final, fully
substantiated document which clearly schedules out your argument and I or position on the issue of the
Generator Exhaust System not forming part of your contracted scope on the Project.
We would at this juncture reiterate for the record that steps 1-4 inclusive are to be followed in strict
accordance with the Subcontract Agreement, with the same culminating in the convening of a Dispute
Meeting if such an issue cannot be resolved amicably.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, however if you seek further clarification to the
points raised, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Subject: Invitation to attend a Dispute Meeting
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: CSC_ TCAJV /MTB/LSH/L01529 dated 25th September 2016 (received 27th
September 2016) wherein you issue a notice citing Clause 27.3.1 of the Subcontract (Dispute Resolution)
for what appears to be inter alia a claim for additional Costs.
Please be advised that your claims are connected with or related to claims under the Main Contract and
accordingly Clause 27 .3.2A of the Conditions of Subcontract shall apply.
As required by Clause 27.3.1 we are required to hold a Dispute Meeting with you for the purpose of
clarifying your claims, determining what information is outstanding or further information required and
the actions to be taken by both Parties given that your claims are connected with or related to claims
under the Main Contract.
Meeting Name:
Meeting Date:
Meeting Timing:
Meeting Venue:
Dispute Meeting in relation to Letter L01529
On or Before Thursday 3rd November 2016, to be confirmed
To be confirmed
To be confirmed
Kindly confirm and advise the names of the attendees and suggested date for the Meeting.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Notice of Dispute- Scope of Works Clarification L7 Stainless Steel Conduits
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2324 dated 21st October 2015
pertaining to the
subject matter of 'Notice of Dispute- Scope of Works Clarification L7 Stainless Steel Conduits' and would
respond as
follows to the content of the same.
First and foremost your letter fails to deal with I address your contractual obligations regarding
Contractors
Instructions, the same being issued to you under cover of Letter Reference MTBITCAIANELILI001792
dated 19th
September 2015.
Whilst acknowledgement of your dispute is given particular attention has to be given to Clause 11.3.1 of
the
Subcontract Conditions (Contractors Instruction) whereas;
Clause 11.3.1
' ....... The Subcontractor shall comply with the instruction given by the Contractor on any matter related
to the
Subcontract, wherever practicable, instructions shall be given in writing'.
We would in this instance make reference to Contractors Instruction Reference
MTBITCAIANEL/CI/00296 which
accompanied our Letter MTBITCAIANELILI001792.
Dispute resolution Clause 27.3 is clear in that of the procedures that need to be in place, one of which
being that a
dispute arising out of or in connection with or relating to the Subcontract Works. Your silence on the
matter of
works progress is tantamount to refusal and it is therefore you who is in breach of your Subcontract
Agreement I
Conditions.
Nevertheless it has become abundantly clear that you have planned to fail. In our opinion the progress
of your
works in this matter is too slow, in some quarters this could be labelled 'non-existent'. In this instance
we would
both make reference and implement that of Clause 16.4 of the Subcontract Conditions in that;
Clause 16.4
Clause 16.4.1 It at any time:
the Contractor considers (acting reasonably) that actual progress is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract
Time for Completion:
progress has fallen (or will fall) behind the Subcontract Programme: and/or

the Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractor's
Programme or
other parts of the Contract Works.
then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit, under clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme), a revised
recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out in clause
16.3
(Subcontract Programme) and supporting .report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor proposes to
adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion. These
revised methods
may include increases in the working hours and/or in the numbers of Subcontractor's Personnel and/or
Goods and/or
any other measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised Subcontract
Programme and
supporting report within seven {7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor may, acting
reasonably, if it
considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate, instruct the Subcontractor to
make such
amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report as it
considers
reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such amendments and/or
modifications.
In the meantime, please take this letter as confirmation under Clause 27.3 (Dispute Resolution) that a
suitable date
and time will be set aside to review the same, whereas we hope that you will use your best endeavours
to send a
representative who has the authority to discuss and settle this dispute. For ease of reference;
Clause 27.3.1
'In the event of any dispute, difference, controversy or claim between the parties arising out of or in
connection with
or relating to the Subcontract, representatives of the parties shall, within thirty (30) Days of a written
notice from one
Party (the notifying Party) to the other Party (a Dispute Notice), hold a meeting (a Dispute Meeting) in
an effort to
resolve the dispute or difference. Each Party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a
representative who has
authority to settle the dispute or difference at the Dispute Meeting.'
All time and cost borne out of your refusal to comply with your contractual obligations will be for your
account and
in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3

In summary we hold you completely culpable for all time and cost implications in this regard and you are
instructed
to implement all corrective measures required without further delay.
We trust you find the aforementioned se lf-explanatory and you will carry out the necessary as a matter
of urgency.
If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Alternative Dispute Resolution Proposal
Dear Sir,
Further to the informal discussions with AECOM and ADAC commercial teams on the above subject, we
wish to formally propose an alternative dispute resolution process in the form of a 'Dispute Adjudication
Board' [DAB] as an alternative to the Arbitration process provided pursuant to Clause 27.3 in the
Conditions of Contract.
We attach hereto the following proposals for your review:
1. An Agreement for the Amendment to the Conditions of Contract, and
2. A Dispute Adjudication Agreement to be entered into between the Employer, the Contractor and each
DAB member.
We propose a DAB as an alternative to the Arbitration process for the following reasons:
A. Currently, in the event we disagree with the Engineer's determination of a variation or claim in terms
of Clause 11.4.2 [Determinations], we are compelled to refer the matter for settlement pursuant to
Clause 27.3 [Dispute Resolution], irrespective of value.
B. In terms of Clause 27.3.1 we are required to give notice (a Dispute Notice) of the dispute and
thereafter enter into discussions with the Employer in an attempt to settle the dispute.
C. In the event the Parties could not amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the
matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause 27.3.2.
D. Arbitration is not a 'private' forum in which to settle disputes, the Rules are set by a third party and
arbitration is not an economic form of dispute resolution- both Parties incurring substantial legal and
'specialist' fees.
E. In terms of this alternative dispute resolution process a dispute, with value equal to or less than a
limit to be agreed between the Parties (the DAB limit), of say AED 75 million, would be referred to the
DAB in terms of amended Clau se 27.3.1 for its adjudication and decision.
23'd September 2013
Reference: MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/000927
F. Disputes with value greater than the DAB limit could be referred to the DAB by agreement or be
referred to the Parties for amicable settlement in terms of amended Clause 27.3.2. Failing amicable
settlement the dispute could be referred to arbitration in terms of amended Clause 27.3.3.
G. The DAB form of dispute resolution is 'private', the DAB Rules are developed by and agreed between
the Parties and the DAB is a more economic approach to dispute settlement.
H. Periodic visits to the Works by the DAB members would permit them to become and remain

acquainted with the progress of the Works and of any actual or potential problems or claims that
could lead to a dispute.
I. The DAB process would permit prompt decisions to disputes that would otherwise be deferred for
several months. The earlier determinations under the DAB process would greatly assist both the
Employer and the Contractor with budget I income forecasting thereby removing the 'un known' and
indirectly improving day to day working relationships.
J. Decisions of the DAB would be final and binding on the Parties.
We would appreciate your review of the attached and the opportunity to discuss this alternative dispute
resolution proposal with you as soon as possible.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: AI Ghurair Painting Facility

Dear Sir,
Kindly find enclosed the Engineer’s letter referenced (1) above which is self-explanatory. Specifically, the
Engineer’s letter is regarding your failure to provide the documents required for your glass painting
works and Painters Evaluation by Alva Paints. For clarity and for the purpose of interpretation, “the
Contractor” in the Engineer’s letter shall be read as “the Subcontractor”.
In light of the above, you are instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to
immediately take appropriate action and submit all required documents and comply with the Engineer’s
request accordingly.
You are reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other
Subcontractor/s arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your
account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3[Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 [Delay Damages]
and other relevant clauses.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: OTIS's ongoing lack of performance- Follow up on Notice pursuant to Clause
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Engineer's letter (1} dated 22 February 2018 which was
received by the Contractor on 28 February 2018 only. It appears that the Engineer 's letter (1) was
drafted in advance of the Engineer receiving Contractor's letter (2). We trust that the Engineer on
reviewing

Contractor's letter (2) will find the details of the mitigation measures put in place. Furthermore, in
addition to the mitigation measures stated in letter (2}, the Contractor has also increased the number of
escalator technicians and supervisors from 30 to 53 personnel at present.
The Contractor would further like to record that the mitigation measures put place are bearing positive
results. This is evidenced by the fact that in February 2018, the Contractor has successfully installed and
completed 14 elevators, which when compared to the total numbers installed and completed in
December 2017 and January 2018 respectively, translates to an increase of circa 350%. Additionally, the
Contractor plans to install and complete a further 12 elevators in March 2018, which is line with the
updated Rev 10.4 target Programme.
Furthermore, the LET/PBB in Pier 3 and Pier 4 are being prepared for cause and effect testing and
testing and commissioning. At present 21 travellators and 6 escalators are cleaned with all wiring works
completed, while a further 24 elevators have been tested in advance. The Contractor and its
Subcontractor currently have 6 teams working on the travellators, 7 teams working on the escalators
and a further 8 teams working on the elevators, all to ensure that Pier 3 and Pier 4 will be ready for
cause and effect testing as per the dates in the updated Rev 10.4 target Programme.
The Contractor once again assures all Parties that the Contractor will continue using all reasonable
endeavours to complete the Works by the accelerated target completion date.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1023: Engineer's Late and Overdue Response to the
Dear Sir,
Contractor's Various Test Inspection Requests for Interface Verification Tests
(IVT)
In the period between 12 December 2017 and 6 February 2018, the Contractor submitted ten (10) Test
Inspection Requests ('TIR') for Interface Verification Tests ('IVT') for various interfaces of the Airport
Operational System ('AOS') Package, for the Engineer's review and approval, in the manner shown in
Annex A hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 'Submittal Procedures' governs the processing t ime by which
the Engineer is contractually obligated to review and respond to the Contractor's submittals. Therefore,
on the basis that the TIRs are at Rev. 00 and Rev. 01, then these ought to have been responded to by the
Engineer within 21 and 14 calendar days, in the period between 26 December 2017 and 27 February
2018.
However, Annex A illustrates that the Engineer exceeded and continues to exceed the review period for
an initial submittal and a first re-submittal review expressly stipulated in the Contract, by upwards of 76
calendar days.
The Engineer's failure to respond to the TIRs for IVT for testing of the AOS in a timely manner and in any
event, within the review times expressly detailed in the Contract, has prevented and is continuing to
prevent the Contractor from completing the Interface Verification Tests for the AOS Package. Therefore,
the Contractor urges the Engineer to expedite the review of the noted TIRs and issue the response and
associated status code without any further undue delay.
The Contractor therefore contends that the foregoing constitutes a breach of Contract and/or an act of

prevention on the part of the Employer's Personnel. Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of
Contract
Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27 .1.1, the Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.S(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Engineer's Position for Reversal of VE Struct 09- Replacement of Curved
Dear Sir,
Plate Secondary Girders with Trusses- Central processor Roof Steelwork
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Engineer letter ref (1) and responds as follows:
At the outset, the Contractor records it disagreement with the statement of the Engineer that "The
Contract Price and the scope of the Works includes therein a Value Engineering Item referenced as VE
Struct 09 being a proposal by the Contractor to substitute the secondary roof girders to the Central
Processor roof with tri-chord trusses in lieu of curved plate girders." (Emphasis added). The Value
Engineering (VE) Item ref VE Struct 09 was initiated, proposed and introduced by the Employer during
the
Best and Final offer (BAFO) stage during Tender (see letter ref 3 confirming this).
Furthermore, the Contractor rejects the following statement of the Engineer in letter ref (1}" During the
design development in October 2012 a decision was agreed between the Employer's Design Consultant
and
the Contractor's Sub-consultant to adopt a two chord truss except for the edge details which would
utilize
a faceted plate girder system." The Contractor asserts that any reference to the attendance of the
Contractor, Subcontractor or Contractor's Sub-consultants at any VE design development meetings for
VE
Struct 09 is irrelevant. The Contractor only attended those VE design development meetings in good
faith
to assist the Employer's design Consultants. Pursuant to clause 9.7.1 of the Contract, the Employer
(through its design Consultants) was entirely responsible for the design development ofVE Struct 09.
The Contractor has reviewed the Engineer's assessment and does not agree with it. The Contractor
maintains its position as submitted via RFVO ref (4).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's and Sub-Subcontractor's Dormakaba Lack of Superintendence
Dear Sir,

Further to the Contractor's letter references {1) to (3) which notified the Subcontractor of the on-going
delays to the installation of the doors for PrA and PrD, the Contractor records the Subcontractor's and
its
Sub-Subcontractor's Dormakaba continuous lack of performance vis-a-vis the progress of these works.
The Contractor regrets that, despite holding numerous meetings with both the Subcontractor and
Dormakaba, there continues to be an evident lack of superintendence on Site. To be clear, attending a
meeting does neither deprive the Subcontractor nor Dormakaba from their obligation to supervise the
works being undertaken on Site.
Moreover, despite assuring that the labour resources would be increased to 20 by 07 March 2018,
Dormakaba has only mobilised 8 workers thus far; this is unacceptable considering that all bays on the
PrD
are available to the Subcontractor to work and that there is a substantial volume of steel elements
delivered to Site which are pending installation. The Contractor reiterates its request that a two weeks
look-ahead programme loaded with resources and plant/access equipment is submitted without further
delay.
Pursuant to Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] of the Conditions of
Subcontract, the Subcontractor is notified that all rights under these Clauses are reserved.
Yours faithfully,
Abu

Subject : Claim Process
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1}, (2}, {3} and (4} wherein the Contractor has
stated its disagreement with the Engineer's correspondence regarding the Contractor's failure to abide
by the contractual requirements in relation to its obligation to submit delay notices, full details and
particulars as well as a Time Impact Analysis within the required timeframe in Clause 27.1 of the
Conditions of Contract.
The Contractor's assertion that it is the Engineer's and/or the Employer's obligation to identify "the
delays" is erroneous and contractually unsupported. Clause 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract
clearly establish the Contractor's obligations regarding the claim process and the required timeframes
which need to be complied with.
The Contractor's attempt in correspondence {3} to pass the responsibility of its own fai lure to comply
with Clauses 27.1 and 27.2 to the Engineer is rejected. The Contractor's excuse that it has not complied
with the Contract as a result of the changes incurred in the Project is not valid. We reiterate our position
in correspondence (6) in respect to this issue. Furthermore, we record that the Contractor has never
requested the relaxation of the timeframe
requirements specified in the above stated Clauses. Pursuant to Clause 9.1.2 of the Conditions of
Contract, the rights and remedies of either Party under the Contract may only be waived by formal
written waiver which is signed by a duly authorized representative. The Contractor is therefore
requested to evidence that it has requested the Employer's rights under Clause 27.1 and 27.2 to be
waived and that such waiver has been provided.

The Contractor's statement regarding the alleged failure of the Engineer to honour its obligations with
respect to the Contractor's claims is also rejected. The Contractor refers to correspondence {7) and {9)
to
support its allegation against the Engineer. The Engineer reiterates the contents of its correspondence
{8) and {10).
Furthermore, the Contractor's statement that the Engineer has not provided detailed comments on the
Contractor's submission for EOT 2 is unfounded. The Contractor is referred to correspondence {11), {12)
and {13) where the Engineer communicated the identified deficiencies of the Contractor's EOT2
submission and requested the Contractor to address them. The Contractor was requested to assess,
audit and determine its Subcontractors Costs instead of passing their claims to the Engineer and also to
provide the required concurrency analysis. For the record, the Contractor to date has failed to adhere to
these obligations.
The Contractor also purports that the Engineer has failed to issue an interim extension of time against
its
EOT2 claim. However, and as previously communicated via {14) the Contractor has not provided the
required evidence of compliance with Clause 16.5.2, 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract.
Therefore, until such time as the Contractor evidences otherwise, it is deemed to have waived its rights
for additional time and/or cost under the Contract.
In light of the above, it is apparent that the Contractor has systematically and continuously have failed
to
adhere to its Contractual obligations with regards to its claim submissions.
Subject RE: Notification of Delay: W rapper Mullion Columns for 7W, GAW: Scaffolding
Dear Sir,
Obstruction to the Completion of touch up painting works
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor notifies that the crash
deck installation is obstructing its access to the wrapper mullion columns in 7W and 6AW and therefore
preventing the completion of the 'touch up and painting works'. To be clear:
The Contractor records that the painting works referred by the Subcontractor in its letter (1) should
have
been undertaken (and protected) upon completion of the de-propping activities in June 2016 when the
ceiling crash deck was not even installed; in other words, these works should have been completed by
the
Subcontractor a while ago.
Moreover, the Contractor confirms that it served regular notifications to the Subcontractor thus advising
that numerous open fronts were available to the Subcontractor to progress the AESS painting works of
the
wrapper mullions; however, the Subcontractor neglected the Contractor's directions. These notifications
include, but are not limited to, letter references (2) and (3). The Contractor confirms therefore that any
impediment to accessing these areas being now encountered by the Subcontractor is a consequence of
its

own delays and lack of implemented mitigation measures.
In respect of the Subcontractor's opinion that it is entitled to an extension to the Time for Completion
and
reimbursement of 'additional prolongation costs', the Contractor advises the Subcontractor that in
correspondence (1) it has neither evidenced the impact of the alleged delay to its programme nor has it
stated the implemented mitigation measures for the avoidance of the alleged delay. Should the
Subcontractor intend to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the content of letter (1), the
Subcontractor is reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28) from
the date of the events which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of Clause
27 .1.5 of the Conditions of Subcontract. Furthermore, the Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a
Time
Impact Analysis in accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within twenty-one (21) days in order to enable the
Contractor to review any entitlement the Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost. The
Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the aforementioned contractual
obligations
as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's claim. Finally,
and for the sake of clarity, the Contractor reiterates that 'Substantial Completion' is a contractual
term meaning that 'the Subcontract Works have reached the state of completeness described in Clause
18
of the Conditions of Subcontract'; this has not yet been achieved by the Subcontractor.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Engineers Instruction No. 662 – Omission of Stone Floor Tile Installation at L3.0 Hotel Building
Terrace
Dear Sir,

With regards to the above subject, we acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (1) requesting us to
confirm whether the re-instatement of these works will have neutral Time and Cost Impacts.
Please be informed that in our submitted letter reference (3) for the Stone Floor Finish, the changes
seen on the Quantities of the revised BoQ rates, have been quantified up to Bulletin 103.1 and the rates
have been adjusted accordingly but are subject to agreement/approval.
Upon reviewing the stone floor tile requirements at L3.0, we confirm the following:
•
Cost - Included in the revised BoQ but subject to agreement/approval;
•
Time – We confirm that there will be no time impact.
We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter; however, should you require any
further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Reply – 2nd BIM Quotation

Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your 2nd BIM Quotation submitted vide letter referenced in (5) above.
We hereby confirm our acceptance of your quotation subject to the following;
1.
A Variation Order to the Subcontract Agreement referenced in (2) will be issued for this
additional scope hence all terms of the subcontract shall be applicable.
2.
Since this BIM cost is part of Engineering Costs, the existing agreed Payment Terms shall be
applicable to this Variation Order.
In light of the above, we look forward to your confirmation of the above in order to issue a Variation
Order without delay.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Notice To Correct
Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous several correspondences including, but not limited to those referenced
above, and with reference to your Letter of Award (LOA) for “Supply & Installation of Roller Shutter
Doors Work Package Works” dated 20 July 2014 reference (1) above.
Despite our previous numerous reminders and Notice to Correct letters Ref.
MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000035 dated 10 October 2015 and MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000069 dated 14
December 2016, you have not improved your work performance and have not provided sufficient
support to the project. At the time of writing this letter, you have failed your Contractual Obligations to
manage your works which consequently puts the Project’s Milestones at risk.
In view of the above you are informed that the situation has become harmful to the Contractor’s
obligations under the Contract. Consequently, a potential Claim against you pursuant but not limited to
Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] is now becoming more evident, if you do not take all appropriate measures
to rectify your failures immediately.
Therefore, in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and take action for
the following issues:

1.
Email Subject: Non Compliance with Contractual obligations. Non delivery of material (Sunday,
March 11, 2018 1:34 PM)
We have made numerous requests to you via emails and phone, to get a delivery schedule for all the
remaining materials and the order acknowledgements from the factories, but none of our requests have
been complied.
If you do not provide the required information the soonest, we will need to take appropriate action and
visit your supplier’s factory to verify whether the materials are in fabrication or not. Consequently, in
the event that you are unable to provide the required information, we will place a QC monitor at your
factories to ensure that the products are in fabrication and meet the Project Requirements. Please note
that any and all costs related to the abovementioned will be charged to you pursuant to Clause 10.3
[Contractor's Claims].
2.
Abu Dhabi Civil Defence (ADCD) Requirements for Non-Objection Certificate (NOC)
(MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000110 dated 15 Feb 2018)
We have issued the letter referenced above, urgently requesting you to fill out the form and supporting
documents for ADCD as mentioned in the letter, but no reply has been received to date.
3.

Warranties (MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000109 dated 11 Feb 2018)

We have sent you a letter on 24th February 2018 for the requirements of Warranties under your
Subcontract Works package but you have not responded to date, accordingly.
4.

Action on Closeout Documentation (MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000106 dated 29 Jan 2018)

We have issued the Closeout Documentation; both Overhead Coiling Doors Operation & Maintenance
Manuals and Training Manuals; we highlighted that the deadlines are non-negotiable on 27 March 2018
and 1st May 2018, respectively. You were then informed about the compulsory attendance for the
Weekly Closeout Progress Meeting which was/is held every Thursday at 10:30am in meeting room F2 at
our main office. Your failure to attend the meetings as requested and take appropriate action has been
noted in this matter.
5.
Target As-Built Drawing Schedule Rev.02.1 dated 22 November 2017 – Reminder
(MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000105 dated 17 Jan 2018)
We have sent a reminder to you for the failure of responding to our letter Ref.
MTB/TCA/TECHTRADE/L/000099 dated 05 December 2017 whereby you have been requested to
provide your target program to completion; in which you failed to reply within 7 days upon receipt of
the letter on 9th December 2017, as required thereunder.

We hereby inform you that if action is not taken as stated above, you will be in breach of the
Subcontract provisions in accordance with but not limited to Clause 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations] due
to the delay of the foregoing. You are further informed that we will no longer tolerate your conduct in
respect of this matter which may cause delays to the Subcontract Works for which you shall be held
solely responsible.
In view of the above, we hereby give you a Notice to Correct under the Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice
to Correct] to proceed with all required contractual submission and expedite the Subcontract Works
immediately. At this juncture, we must emphasize once more that any delays, costs, losses and/or
expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to
complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to
Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1
[Delay Damages].
Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Re: Delay Notice – Wall Cladding Installation and Scaffolding Dismantling Pier 1

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11523/18 pertaining to your own
delays and respond to your alleged statements as follows.
1.
Your Statement:
“Zone 3: Scaffolding has been dismantled and the work completed.”[sic]
Our Response:
The dismantling should have been completed by 5th November 2017 as per your Completion Schedule.
This delay has impacted our follow-on activities and all related activities. We have sent you several
notifications requesting and reminding you to complete the dismantling of the scaffolding. However,
you have neglected all of our notifications and decided to suspend the works causing delays. Below is an
extract of the agreed date schedule.
2.
Your Statement:
“Zone 1 missing panels: absence of access due to the ongoing flooring works in this area.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. Zone 1 High Level ceiling was completed approximately 3 (Three) years
ago and you have not taken any action to date nor requested any access to these areas. You are hereby
reminded to coordinate your works with Other Subcontractors under Subcontract Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] including the flooring

Subcontractor. Your intention is observed and noted, whereby you use temporary obstructions to
record them as an excuse of your own delays and will not be accepted.
3.
Your Statement:
“Zone 1A the Scaffolding is expected to be dismantled on the 20th of February. [sic]
Our Response:
The dismantling should have been completed by 31st December 2017 as per your Completion Schedule.
This delay has impacted our follow-on activities and all related activities.
Conclusion:
In light of the above explanations, we reiterate our position that the delays caused by you remain
unchanged.
Therefore, we hereby serve you this notification that, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the
like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed LPO referenced in (2) above and we hereby confirm that we
have already arranged the Fabricator for the Installation of Halfen Channel on your behalf.
Pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), we hereby
confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts but not limited to the enclosed, from your interim
payments accordingly. The basis of these charges is due to the fact that the works are being carried out
on your behalf, due to your failure to perform your Subcontract obligations.
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors), whereby you are liable to the Contractor for any
claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs arising out of your failure
to perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and future reference.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject: Engineer's Overdue Response to the Contractor's Request for Confirmation of

Variation Order for RFEI/0401/0592- Wet and Damp Area
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the letters reference (1) and (2) above, whereby the Contractor has requested,
pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract, that the Engineer
confirms
that the information, comments, clarifications and instructions, contained in the Engineer's response to
RFEI/0401/0592 and 'Wet and Damp Area Site Walk Report', constitute a formal Variation Order. The
Contractor records that, as of the date of this letter, the Engineer has failed to provide the necessary
confirmation of Variation or to issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Contract.
The Contractor is currently progressing with the works as per the current IFC information and approved
shop drawings. The Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer that should the Engineer now issue an
instruction to implement any of the changes requested in RFEI/0401/0592 and/or 'Wet and Damp Area
Site Walk Report', there will be abortive works. It should be noted that the ROMs reference (3} and (4)
currently do not include the estimated cost for the abortive works. The Engineer/Employer shall be
responsible for any delays or disruptions to the Works, and the costs of any abortive works, as a result of
the Engineer's failure to provide the necessary confirmation of Variation or to issue an Engineer's
instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a) of
the
Conditions of Contract, in a timely manner.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Clause 27.1.5(a): Interim Particulars for the Basis of Claim
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to Notice of Claim No. 1011 (letter ref: 7), and hereby submits these detailed
interim
supporting particulars of the basis of claim in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause
27.1.5(a).
1.0 Basis of Claim
Background
1.1 The Contractor provides a succinct overview of the events and circumstances leading to issuance
of Delay Notice No. 1011 i.e. Requests for Information RFI/0401/14116, RFI/0401/15239 and
RFI/0401/15493 in addition to Request for Engineer's Instruction RFEI/0401/0672, in Annex A
hereto.
1.2 Both RFI/0401/15239 and RFI/0401/15493 (refer Annex A), proposed additional works for the
Contractor at the interface of the Car Park Building and Car Park Bridge. These are contrary to the
IFC design and should have been undertake by the Car Park contractor (L& T) and consist of:
1.2.1 Additional rain screen scope;
1.2.2 Support and closure works in the Car Park structure;
1.2.3 Ensuring Other Contractor's works were weather tight; and

1.2.4 Altering ceiling heights to match the Car Park contractor's despite it differing from IFC
Drawings.
1.3 This prompted the facade package subcontractor (Jangho) to raise letter refs: 5 and 6, stating that
the RFis suggest additional scope of its subcontract and therefore require an Instruction issued
pursuant to CC-C 20.1.1(a) to proceed with the works.
Impacts otDelay
1.4 The ongoing failure to provide the required information described above, is preventing
completion of the following:
1.4.1 Shop Drawing submission;
1.4.2 Material fabrication; and
1.4.3 Installation works.
These Interim Particulars
1.5 However, Despite the issuance of Delay Notice No. 1011 (letter ref: 7, dated 20 February 2018), at
the date of the preparing these Interim Particulars (28 February 2018), the required design
remains outstanding, thereby preventing the works from progressing.
1.6 Consequently, the effects of the events and circumstances giving rise to this claim outlined above
remains on-going and therefore is continuing to have an effect on the Time for Completion.
1.7 As the effects of delay have, at the date of preparing these Interim Particulars, which is 28
February 2018, yet to be fully realised, then the events and circumstances outlined above giving
rise to this claim are deemed on-going and have a continuing effect on the Time for Completion of
the Works.
Summary
1.8 The Contractor undertakes to review the event(s) and circumstances described herein, in order to
assess the direct and consequential effects on the Time for Completion of the Works; the outcome
of which will be submitted in due course, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.2.1.
2.0 Date Basis of Claim is Discovered
2.1 The Contractor considers that the date the basis of claim was discovered is 3 February 2018, when
the Contractor received Jangho's letter ref: 6; which represents the date when it became apparent
that the events and circumstances outlined above, was delaying the Contractor's Works and
would give rise to an entitlement to an extension to the Time for Completion, and associated
additional Costs.
3.0 Relevant Contract Provisions
3.1 The Contractor's entitlement to an extension to the Time for Completion of the various affected
Milestones, including inter alia MS09A1 (Pier 2), MS09A2 (Pier 3), MS09A3 (Pier 1), MS09A4 (Pier
4), and Milestones MS09B and MS10, and any associated additional I abortive Costs, arises from:
3.1.1 a breach of Contract or act of prevention on the part of the Employer, the Employer's
Personnel and I or the Consultants pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
3.1.2 Contractor's Claims pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1.
3.2 The impact that this delaying event will have on the Clause 16.3 Programme (Rev. 6.2) will be
determined by a Time Impact Analysis pursuant to Clause 27.2.1 of the Conditions of Contract. 3.3 In the
meantime, further interim and I or final details of this claim will be provided in accordance
with Sub-Clause 27.1.S(b) and Sub-Clause 27.1.5(c).

Yours faithfully,
Subject:Notification of Back Charge for Roller Shades Fuse Connection Units in Office Building
Dear Sir,
Further to your email above wherein you have accepted the back charge of the works to be carried out
on your behalf by M/s Anel, we write to notify you in regards to M/s Anel’s ROM cost for the Roller
Shades Fuse Connection Units in the Office Building.
We hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the cost and all other associated cost from your
account, according to the Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims),
once it has been finalized by M/S Anel.
This notice is issued in accordance with the Conditions of the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 (Contractor’s
Claim) and 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors], which specify that you shall be liable
for the costs arising out of your failure to perform your Obligations under the Subcontract.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.

Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Notice to Correct Retail Downstands in CP Area

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (7) above pertaining to the aforementioned subject
which you attempted to conceal your own delays.
Please note that, your statements in your letter referenced (7) above, are in fact incorrect and show
your deliberate misinterpretation of your own commitments. Below is the history of events:
1)
We have received Engineer’s Instruction via MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06738 dated 24th January
2017 and issued you the same with Contractor’s Instruction via letter (1) referenced above.
2)
You have submitted your cost via MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2195 referenced (2) above.
3)
You have refused to proceed with the works on site without a Variation Order which is a clear
breach of the Subcontract Agreement (Attachment –1).
4)
We have issued you the Variation Order-19 with letter referenced (3) above with the agreed
amount which you have accepted with response letter referenced (4) above dated 10th August 2017.
5)
Please note that pursuant to Clause 16.5.7, 16.5.8 and 16.5.9 [Extension of Subcontract Time for
Completion] of our Subcontract Agreement regarding the Employer’s Culpable Events, we shall not be

liable to pay any additional Costs unless we have agreed to that Cost, in writing (including written
agreement with the Employer/Engineer). This is in line with the Employer’s connected Claims under the
Contract Clause(s) which you have acknowledged while signing your Subcontract Agreement. Although
the Engineer’s assessment and certification of the subject Variation Order has not been received yet, as
a gesture of good will we have issued you the said Variation Order for “Supply and Installation of CP
Retail Smoke Downstands” amounting to AED 4,466,482.67.
6)
However, your continuous failure to proceed and cooperate on site has been evident. Although
you were (and continue to be) in breach of your Subcontract as per your aforementioned failures, in
order to help you and ensure the smooth progress of works on site, our Construction Manager agreed to
assign another Subcontractor, some portion of Structural Steel Supports which is under VO-19 as seen in
the enclosed highlighted drawing (Attachment-2). In view of the above failures and pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor], we hereby inform you that we will issue an official instruction for
the Omission of works for these areas in the form of a Negative Variation Order.
We have done everything all in good faith even when you were in breach of the Subcontract, by issuing
to you Notice to Correct via letter referenced (6) above, requesting you to provide a response including
specific dates of completion, which you failed to do so. Please note that at the time of writing this email,
we are still awaiting the said information from you regarding the updated schedule showing current
progress and anticipated completion dates as seen in the enclosed email from Clint Nisbet dated
February 19th 2018. (Attachment-3)
In response to your statement in your letter reference (7), wherein you alleged that you have not had
sufficient work-front. We refute your allegations and clarify for the record that you currently have
enough work-front as described below:
7)
Please be reminded that overall work-fronts have been available to an appropriate level to
progress accordingly and your alleged “lack of MEP clearance” statement is incorrect and not
acceptable.
8)
Your statement “priority of installation has been changed a few times by TCAJV after erecting
the scaffolding” is again incorrect. This has been done to facilitate with your works and align with
Client’s requirements.
9)
Your statement that “M/s Cloisall cannot start installing the GRG until the GRC is properly
aligned” is incorrect. Your lack of coordination is noted on this matter and you shall not be excused for
not proceeding with the material fabrication and consequently proceeding with the available areas by
cooperating with our Construction team as per your Contractual Obligations.
10)
You have also failed to coordinate and submit your BIM Models on a timely manner. We have
shared all reference BIM Models related to Central Prcessor Level 20 services with you on 23rd January
2017, to enable you to coordinate retail downstand design along with the adjacent MEP services
(Attachment -4). However, you have failed to do so. BIM Models have been submitted recently on 8th
February 2018 (Attachment-7). Please be informed that your lack of diligence while performing your
duties is affecting the overall performance of your work package and causing delays and costs to followon trades as stated in the enclosed letter from PCEJV referenced MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/04348 dated 21st
February 2018 and our highlighted drawing for the relevant subject (Attachments-5 & 6). Any delays,

costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us arising as a result of your failure including to
complete the BIM deliverables on time will be solely your responsibility.
All of the above, is a failure of your Subcontract Obligations, pursuant to the provisions under Clause
12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and particularly Clause
12.11.2, wherein “The Subcontractor shall be responsible for its construction activities on the Site, and
shall coordinate its own activities with those of the Consultants and Other Subcontractors so as not to
obstruct, disrupt or delay work being performed by the Consultants and Other Subcontractors”.
In light of the above, in the event whereby you consider that delays are caused on site due the
unsubstantiated allegations provided in your letter, then you are requested to provide details
demonstrating how these delays are affecting your Programme of Works by providing supporting
evidence and delay analysis. Moreover, pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time
Impact Analysis for each alleged delay event has to be provided, showing what effect each event has
had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays.
Your statement that “Furthermore, the disagreements & non approval of the EOT claims with M/s. TCA
JV has affected our cash flows and this in turn affected the payments to Cloisall's subcontractors. Thus
M/s. Cloisall has lost a considerable number of its manpower due to the non payment issues with the
man power suppliers working with M/s. Cloisall. As you are aware the EOT claims are still not finalized.”
is also baseless. Be informed that the management of Sub-Subcontractor(s) forms an integral part of
your Contractual Obligations pursuant but not limited to Clause 12.9 [Subcontracting]. The fact that you
have stated your failure to administer your Subcontractor(s) is in fact an admittance of delaying the
works on site due to Sub-Subcontract mismanagement. We do not have any control, whatsoever, over
your financial agreements with your Subcontractor(s), therefore we cannot be held liable.
You are well aware of our efforts for a determination on EOT claims. You are also aware of the fact that,
costs associated with Extension of Time related to the Employer’s Culpable events, can only be paid
upon the approval and certification from the Engineer for the same. We are liaising continuously with
all the involved parties (i.e. the Engineer/Employer) in order to conclude the soonest. However, we will
not be in a position to conclude your EOT submission unless and until a sufficient substantiation is
provided by you, as discussed in previous correspondences.
Moreover, we have already assisted you by providing on-account payments of AED 40,000,000.00 in
June-2017 with Amendment Agreement -3 to improve your cash flow, of which we have only recovered
AED 3,333,333.34, as per your progress of works. We have also paid an additional amount of AED
21,698,818 which is actually the amount for the forecasted period of 3 months of Material Procurement.
On top of that we have continued our financial support on your cashflow and released an On account
payment amounting to AED 9,000,000 “against the value of Variations pending the agreement or
determination by the Engineer” divided/allocated into 3 payments in October-17, November-17 and
December-17.

In view of the above, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor]
and the provisions under Clause 16.4 [Recovery of Delays] to immediately start taking mitigation
measures. This can be achieved by working at the available work-fronts and assigning adequate
manpower to recover your own delays and provide us current progress and anticipated completion
dates for the Retail Downstands, as per the established Zones indicated by the Employer.
Therefore, we hereby reiterate our previous “Notice to Correct” which was issued to you via our letter
referenced (6) above pursuant to Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct].
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failures stated herein, will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract
Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors]
and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Louvers Installation

Poor Performance 15 - Lack of Progress Related to Hotel and Office

Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced in (4), kindly find enclosed the Engineer’s letter referenced in (5) above
which is self-explanatory. Specifically, the Engineer’s letter is regarding the lack of progress related to
the Office and Hotel facade works installation and in particular the corner panels, internal flashings,
brackets changing, fire rated panels and louvers fabrication, delivery and installation. The Engineer also
highlights the lack of material delivery from the suppliers.
We point out that the mentioned works are under your Scope and your failure to proceed accordingly is
causing serious delays. For clarity and for the purpose of interpretation, “the Contractor” in the
Engineer’s letter shall be read as “the Subcontractor”.
In light of the above, you are instructed pursuant to Clauses 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] and
12.10.1 [Sub-subcontractor Performance] and the provisions under Clause 16.4 [Recovery of Delays] to
immediately take action and submit a mitigation plan for the recovery of the current delays and to
complete all activities as per the committed schedule.
You are again reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other
Subcontractor/s arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your
account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3[Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 [Delay Damages]
and other relevant clauses.

This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Employer’s Related Variations / Exchange Rate

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we would like to draw your attention to our continuous technical
and financial support in an effort to complete the works without further delay. We also would like to
emphasize our directness once more and our willingness to be available to discuss any matter related to
the Works and resolve all issues in an amicable manner.
Kindly note that as of today, we have only received 3 No Variation Orders and the rest are pending with
the Engineer. The fact that the Engineer has not issued all Variation Orders for the Airport Counter
Package, has not hindered us in issuing Variation Orders to you in order to support you financially.
Moreover, despite the issuance of Variation Orders No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 from our side, we have not yet
received the signed agreement copies from you yet. You are well aware of the fact that the certification
and subsequently the payment of a Variation Order is subject to approval and signature from both
Parties.
In addition, please be informed that the Engineer has deducted MOS related to Variation Orders from
our account, which were previously approved. However, at that time as a gesture of goodwill we did not
pass on these deductions.
In the meantime, in the absence of the issuance of the pending Variation Orders from the Engineer and
with the genuine intention to assist you financially, we have been certifying and releasing on-account
payments to assist your cash flow. Consequently, we have been assisting you financially by certifying
more than what you have been actually applying for.
Therefore, with reference to our letter (1) above and numerous correspondences and emails between
the Parties (i.e. Contractor, Subcontractor, the Engineer and the Employer) we write to inform you that
the Exchange Rate cited in the Engineer’s Assessments for all RFVOs and consequently Variations Orders
is put forward as 4.30 AED/EUR by the Employer. If you would refer to the enclosed rate exchange graph
you would also agree that this is fair and reasonable based on the rate fluctuations of the concerned
period.
Please be informed that by utilizing an exchange rate of 4.95 AED/EUR for the RFVO’s submitted (RFVO 1114 Rev0 and RFVO - 1009) cannot be considered fair following the analysis of the exchange rate
history attached herewith. However, as per the attached schedule of rates and the attached graph, it is

evident that the exchange rate from October 2016 to date has not exceeded 4.60 AED/EUR and the
average for that period was 4.13 AED/EUR.
For the sake of clarity and in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby provide a brief history of
events regarding the foregoing, as follows:
•
On 8 September 2014 you submitted your quotation reference CCM/TND/0714/010; exchange
rate on 8 September 2014 was 4.74 AED/EUR*;
•
The Subcontract Agreement was signed and agreed on 10 December 2014; exchange rate on 10
December 2014 was 4.57 AED/EUR*;
•
RFVO -1114 Rev0 was submitted on 12 October 2016; exchange rate on 12 October 2016 was
4.04 AED/EUR*; and
•
RFVO - 1009 was submitted on 27 April 2017; exchange rate on 27 April 2017 was 3.99
AED/EUR*.
In light of the above, we consider that the rate of 4.95 AED/EUR would be unreasonable and without a
basis for any of the parties of the Project. Therefore, we reiterate that we are of the opinion that the
endeavor of the Engineer to assess and evaluate your Variations has been done in a reasonable manner.
Kindly, be informed that the information provided herein is given on a "without prejudice" basis and is
not to be construed as a waiver of or a limitation to any of our rights under the Subcontract.
We are confident that you will find the above information correct and that you will proceed with due
diligence to complete the Works by the target completion date.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Engineers Instruction No. 677A – Award of DPS – Back of House Statutory Signage Items – BoQ
PS/4/P/2/I, J, K & L
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we acknowledge receipt of Engineers Instruction No. 677A via
letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09057 received on 07 March 2018 instructing us pursuant to Clauses
11.3, 20.1.1 (a) and 20.4 of the Conditions of Contract, to award the preferred bidder M/S Joseph
Advertising, the Contract to implement Defined Provisional Sum (DPS) Items PS/4/P/2/I, J, K & L for Back
of House Statutory Signage.
Pleased be informed that we are currently not accepting this Instruction due to the following:
•
There is no approved Sub-contract amount for the selected bidder M/S Joseph Advertising,
therefore you are kindly requested to approve the corresponding amount accordingly;

•

There are no documents referred, in this Instruction.

Kindly send us a revised and proper Instruction along with relevant documents to enable us to proceed
and enter into a Subcontract Agreement with the approved bidder.

Yours faithfully,

Subject: Letter of Indemnity
Dear Sir,
The above goods were shipped on the above vessel by Messrs Tengzhou Tiger Co. Ltd Add. Modern
Glass Industrial Base, Tengzhou Shandong, China and directly consigned to us under the above
mentioned B/L No. 790810027419.
We hereby request you to deliver such goods to Messrs TAV CCC Arabtec Joint Venture (TCAJVL Midfield
Terminal Contractor to as Third party without production of any documents and we acknowledge that in
your delivering of the above goods to this Third Party, the goods under the above mentioned B/L would
have been deemed to be delivered to us.
In consideration of your complying with our above request, we hereby agree as follows:
1. To indemnify you, your servants and agents and hold all of you harmless in respect of any liability loss
or damage of whatsoever nature which you may sustain by reason of delivering the goods to a Third
Party in accordance with our request.
2. In the event of any proceedings being commenced against you or any of your servants or agents on
connection with the delivery of the goods as aforesaid to provide you or them from time to time with
sufficient funds to defend the same.
3. If the ship or any another ship or property belonging to you should be arrested or detained or if the
arrest or detention thereof should be threatened, to provide such bail r other security as may be
required to prevent such arrest or detention or to secure the release of such ship or property and to
indemnify you in respect of any loss, damage or expenses caused by such arrest or detention whether or
not the same may be justified.
4. The liability of each and every person under this indemnity shall be joint and several and shall not be
conditional upon you proceeding first against any person, whether or not such person is party to or
liable under this indemnity.
5. This indemnity shall be construed in accordance with Dubai law and each and every person liale under
this indemnity shall you request submit to the jurisdiction of the Honourable Court of Dubai.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request of Consignment Clearance Authorisation (CCA) I Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi
Customs Authorities for Automatic Tray Return Conveyor System
Dear Sir,

Pursuant to Engineer's Instruction No 119/119a we kindly request employer to issue a Consignment
Clearance Authorization (CCA) Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi Custom Authorities for Imported
Materials in connection with the delivery of the Automatic Tray Return Conveyor System- KRION
Cladding Panels MACH SMARTLANE in Fifty Six (56) Packages.
The summary details of the shipped materials required for this delivery are attached herewith for your
reference.
We have just received the attached shipping documentation from our Subcontractor and we are mindful
that the shipment is scheduled to arrive at Khalifa Port on the 21st March 2018 thus we respectfully
request you process the requisite documentation in order to obtain the necessary exemption letter from
the Employer and to facilitate the release of the shipment from the port.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Request for Closure of CODE-3 WIR's Corrective Actions Required from TCAJV's Others
Subcontractors
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of the Subcontractor's letter reference (1) which requests the
Contractor takes ownership and closes 82 no. Work Inspection Requests (WIR) which have currently
been assigned a code-3 status by the Engineer/Employer.
To be clear, the Subcontractor shall remain responsible for executing and completing the Subcontract
Works in accordance with the Subcontract (including all painting works). If as a result of any inspection,
workmanship is found not in accordance with the Subcontract, the Contractor and/or Engineer may
reject such workmanship by giving notice to the Subcontractor with reasons (code-3 WIR). The
Subcontractor shall then make good the defect and ensure that the rejected item complies with the
Subcontract.
In other words, addressing the comments provided by the Engineer and obtaining a code-1 in all WIRs
are integral parts of the Subcontractor's obligations under the Subcontract. Therefore, the Contractor
rejects the Subcontractor's attempt to convey the false impression that the Contractor's personnel have
agreed to assume this responsibility on behalf of the Subcontractor and confirms that this duty will not
be transferred.
Notwithstanding this, the Contractor confirms that it will continue to assist the Subcontractor in
addressing the Engineer's comments (particularly, when the Subcontractor has proven these to be
unfair) and obtaining the Engineer's final approval for the Subcontract Works.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Notice of Claim- Damages to Pier Facade Steel
Dear Sir,
Please find attached letter reference (1) wherein the Other Subcontractor J&H Emirates LLC (J&H)
provides
further details in respect of the alleged damages caused by the Subcontractor to the pier fa<;:ade steel.

Moreover, in its letter reference (1) J&H also rebuts the content of the Subcontractor's letter reference
(2)
and states that the Subcontractor failed to take reasonable precatory measures to avoid the damages.
Whilst notifying the Subcontractor of a possible event giving rise to a claim under the provisions of
Clause
10.3 [Contractor Claims] and Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the
Conditions of
Subcontract, the Contractor requests the Subcontractor provides its comments (if any) in relation to this
incident.
Subject: Precautionary Order from the Abu Dhabi Court to Withhold Payments due to
Dear Sir,
Pertaining to the above subject matter and further to letter references (2) and (3), please be informed
that the Contractor is in receipt of the attached Precautionary Order from the Abu Dhabi Court to
withhold payment of AED 11,911,956.34 from amounts due to J&H Emirates (Interdicted/Defendant).
Accordingly, and in compliance with the aforementioned Court Order, please be advised that the
Contractor will withhold payment of AED 11,911,956.34 from amounts due to J&H Emirates until such
time as the Contractor receives confirmation from the Abu Dhabi Court that the Precautionary Order
either remains in force or has lapsed and until such time as the Contractor receives further instructions
from the Abu Dhabi Court in respect of payment of such sums.
This is for the Subcontractor's information and record.
Subject: Handed Over MEP Services (AMC Serving and Passing Through MEP Services)
Damaged/Removed by Other Contractors
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes with reference to the above subject to notify the Engineer that, the handed over
serving and passing through MEP services at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, have been
damaged and/or removed by the AMC contractor {please refer to the enclosed Site photos).
The serving and passing though MEP services in the aforementioned area have been installed, inspected
and handed over to the Employer through WIR procedure. As such, the Contractor shall not be
responsible for the protection of those services·and we request the Engineer to take necessary actions
to
prevent any further damages to, and/or unauthorised removal of, handed over MEP services by Other
Contractors.
Moreover, should the Engineer and/ or the Employer require the Contractor to re-install and re-test the
serving and passing through MEP at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, we request the Engineer
to issue an Engineer's instruction pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 [Instructions of the Engineer] and
20.1.1
{a) [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract, and to provide a formal confirmation of Variation, in
accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4. (b) of the Conditions of Contract.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delegation of the Contractor's Representative Authorities
Dear sir,
Please be advised that the undersigned will be away from site starting Sunday, 11 March 2018 to
Thursday, 15 March 2018 and will be back on duty on Sunday, 18 March 2018. Mr. Siva
Kanagasabai, Deputy Project Director will act on my behalf during my leave.
Therefore, during my absence Mr. Kanagasabai is hereby delegated the Contractor's
Representative powers, function and authorities as granted.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Notice of Back-Charge- Request for Payment On-Behalf of CSCEC
Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous response letter referenced (1) above pertaining to your payment on
behalf request.
Following our Management consideration of your request to pay your Sub-subcontractor and Supplier
on
your behalf, below listed payments have been accepted to avoid site works being affected due to your
failure to pay your Sub-subcontractor(s) and Supplier(s). Please also be reminded of our previous letter
referenced (1) above advising you that, any "Payment onBehalf
Request" shall be both stamped and signed by the individual who holds the Subcontractor's power
of attorney, i.e. Mr. Yu Tao.
Therefore, you are required to submit your conforming letter immediately to enable us processing the
aforementioned payment on your behalf.
Accordingly, we hereby serve this Notice of Back-Charge pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract
Clause
21.3.3 (b) under the Subcontract Agreement and reserve our right to recover the aforementioned
amount
as well as our administrative fee and overhead from your payments.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Subject: Re: Revise Claim
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (1) pertaining to the aforementioned subject.
Following our review of your claim submission referenced (1) above, we note that, you have
resubmitted
an updated 'Off-Site Storage Claim', which we have rejected back in early 2017 through our letter
referenced (2) above.
As you are aware, obtaining approval for the fundamental project deliverables such as below, is
condition

precedent for proceeding with your works at site. Please note that, you were still submitting your
documents for approval as late as June 2017.
• Inspection & Test Plan (ref. ITP-1093-104EA rev.01)
Submitted on 8th May 2017 and received CODE 2 on 6th June 2017.
• Method Statement (ref. MS-1093-104EA rev.OO)
· Submitted on 12th March 2017 and received CODE 2 on 11th Apri/2017.
Notwithstanding with any project schedule or area availability, we note that, you were not in a position
to
commence the site works earlier than June 2017 due to your failure to submit the documents and
obtain
the approvals.
In addition to the above, we also record that, you still do not have valid and approved insurances;
• Third Party Liability Insurance
• Workmen's Compensation
Please note, pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Clause 10.1.2(b) under the Subcontract
Agreement, we may defer the provision of any right of access until the date on which you have valid and
approved insurances.
Moreover, your pending insurance submissions are not only affecting the commencement of your works
at site and also avoiding you to receive the Advance Payment as per the requirements stated under
Schedule 11 {Payment Terms) Paragraph 2.2 of the Subcontract Agreement.
We would like to highlight once again that, multiple handling of the materials were your choice despite
the fact that, material storage area was allocated for you. On the other hand, "Off-Site Storage Claims"
(currently rejected) are separate to 'Prolongation Claims'
(not yet received regardless of the several reminders with guidance attachments).
These email chains were issued to you on several occasions with the attachments to assist you in your
task
to prepare prolongation costs in accordance with the JV and the Engineer's Requirements, including a
Workshop held with you.
Therefore, should you deem yourself entitled to 'Prolongation Costs' for any period beyond March 2015
(EoT 2), you are required to follow the attachments and letters as previously provided on several email
and letter reminders (Attachment 1).
You are also reminded of your obligation to submit a detailed TIA Report and follow the requirements to
demonstrate your time entitlement (if any), as per the relevant clauses including but not limited 27.1
(Subcontractor's Claims), 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) under the Subcontract Agreement.
In light of the explanations, we hereby reject any claim, whatsoever pertaining to the "Off-Site Material
Storage".
This is for your reference and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Response to OTIS - Claim for Extension of Time and Prolongation Cost
Dear Sir,

We acknowledge receipt of the above referenced correspondence concerning the purported cla im
submission for an extension of time. Further to our meeting held 21 January 2018 we respond as
follows.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
You have failed to comply with the Conditions of Subcontract, in particular Clauses 16 and 27, by fai ling
amongst other things, to provide complete and full details and particulars for our evaluation.
Despite holding a prior workshop, during which the procedure and methodology for submission of
claims
were explained, you opted to submit a delay claim using "Impacted As Planned Method" . This method
does not correspond to the method of submission/assessment of claims defined under the Subcontract.
We reaffirm the Time Impact Ana lysis (TIA} methodology is the only approved delay analysis
methodology as stipulated under Subcontract Clause 27.2. The adopted analysis does not rely on a true
critical path analysis by not considering actual progress achieved during the occurrence of the delay
events.
We take this opportunity to remind you the Subcontract Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] which
provides that:
27 .2.1 "In order to assist the Contractor in determining the Subcontractor's entitlement to any
extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion claimed by the Subcontractor pursuant to clause
27.1 (Subcontractor's Claims}, the Subcontractor shall, no later than twenty-one (21) Days after
submitting a claim request, prepare and provide to the Contractor a time impact analysis, using a
methodology acceptable to the Contractor, demonstrating the effect and consequences of the
events and periods of delay relied upon by the Subcontractor in its claim (a Time Impact Analysis)."
27 .2.2 "The Subcontractor's Time Impact Analysis shall be based upon the Subcontractor's
detailed Critical Path Subcontract Programme existing at the time of the events and/or periods
of delay under review and shall be provided in hard copy format and in electronic format in a form
in which the Contractor shall be readily able to ascertain, review and understand the
Subcontractor's baseline critical path network and logic links, the assumptions and data inputted by the
Subcontractor into the network pursuant to its analysis, and the effect and consequences of
different combinations of the events and/or periods of delay relied upon by the Subcontractor."
We further observe the purported delay claim submission fails to adequately demonstrate and
substantiate its case. Put simply, your submission, as they stand, fail to prove any entitlement
whatsoever with respect to time and ultimately cost as we consider them to be inadequate to satisfy the
burden of proof.
Therefore, you are recommended act in accordance with the provisions of the Subcontract in pursuing
any claim. SPECIFIC COMMENTS
In addition to the aforementioned methodology comments, we note the following:
• The claim submission is not presented in a proper format and to an extent that will enable us to
understand the entitlement in relation to the delay events.
• It fails to establish the contractual liability for any delay event.
• You fail to adequately demonstrate the cause and the effect of the delay events with full
chronology in the narrative. This has been conveyed in detail during the aforementioned
meeting.

• Lack of progress reports, progress photographs, minutes of meetings and statement of fact
supporting the claim.
• Need to utilize the proper approved baseline programmes as a base of its claims considering the
periods of EOT 1 and EOT 2 such that;
o The delays from the beginning of the project to 5 March 2015 should be analysed based
on the first approved programme with data date 21 April 2013.
o The delays 6 March 2015 to 01 August 2017 should be analysed based on the last
approved programme with data date 06 March 2015. • We recommend you to update the utilized
programme (without any logic change unless agreed
otherwise) considering the site progress at the end of each time slice.
• The intervals ofTIA updates for each event should not be more than 1 month.
• We recommend you to prepare a detailed delay event table in a way that the table indicates
including but not limited to delay event period, pertinent delay/claim notices and individual
interim particulars submitted, if any. This will not only help explain the chronology of each delay
event in more detail but also constitute a record whether the condition precedents under the
Subcontract are met.
• We recommend you to establish the contractual liability for each delay event and provide clear
and detailed narratives of each delay to establish the cause and effect link in a chronological
order.
• Include within any submission predecessor and successor tables together with relationship and
lag details for each delay event and the rationale behind its logic.
• Consider following the below delay impact scenarios while performing monthly TIAs. The
scenarios differ as a result of the origin of the event. • All activity durations in the 'FRAGNETS' especially
procurement durations, if any, should be
fully substantiated.
• Demonstrate what actions taken to mitigate the impacts of each delay event. Pursuant to
Subcontract clause 16.5.3 (b), it is your obligation to take all reasonable actions to avoid or
mitigate delays.
• Demonstrate how the critical path is being changing for each time slice. The rationale behind
is to determine which delay event(s) is/are driving the critical path within each one month
interval.
• Provide programme snapshots of the milestones for each time slice (from a-base
programme, b-progressed programme and c- impacted programme).
• Provide a detailed summary table depicting the results of TIA for all programs that are
utilized.
In addition to the above, we recommend you to follow the below sample outline of a fully detailed delay
claim submission together with the TIA.
1. Introduction- the Purpose and an Outline.
2. Entitlement to an Extension of Time under the Subcontract.
3. Demonstration of compliance with Conditions Precedent.
4. The Cause of Delay.
5. The Effect of Delay.

6. Delay Analysis Methodology. 7. Delay Analysis Implementation and its Rationale. (Step by step)
8. Sanity Check of Delay Analysis Results.
9. Longest Path Review and Demonstration of Critical Delays.
10. Actions Taken to Avoid or Mitigate the Effects of Delays.
11. Concurrent Delays.
12. Conclusion.
13. Substantiation by Reference to the Project Records.
In order to allow us to assess your entitlement to an Extension of Time and claimed prolongation costs,
you are recommended to revise and resubmit your claim with adequate underpinning substantiation for
the alleged events, including but not limited to, those set out above. The aforementioned sections are
only intended for guidance for time related claims and it should not be construed as final and conclusive
requirements.
Yours truly,
Subject: Value Added Tax (VAT) Certificate- Tax Invoices
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes in relation to the Federal Decree-Law No.8 which has introduced Value Added Tax
in the United Arab Emirates effective from 1st January 2018. As per our previous letter on subject
matter
and referenced above, please be reminded that:
• Each party is separately obliged to meet all Tax Regulations in accordance with the Laws of the
UAE. If not already done so, please provide the Subcontractor's Certificate of Registration for Value
Added Tax in the UAE, which includes the fax Registration Number (TRN) .
• Only after the Subcontractor's Certificate of Registration for Value Added Tax in the United Arab
Emirates is received by the Contractor, the Subcontractor may include 5% VAT in its invoicing for Works
executed and/or services provided from 1 January 2018
Annex A to this letter is the Contractor's Certificate of Registration for Value Added Tax in the UAE.
Please ensure all information provided on tax invoices (company name, TRN and registered address)
reflect the fax Registration information of each party as appears on the Certificate. Below is
Contractor's registered information for ease of reference .
Full English Legal Name: TAV CCC Arabtec JV
Tax Registration Number: 100315397800003
Please refer to Annex B which excerpts Article 59 of Federal Decree-Law No (8) of 2017 on Value Added
fax for particulars of tax invoices.
In view of the above and the attached, please make sure all your tax invoices are in line with the UAE
Laws and Regulations.
Yours faithfully,
Subject HBSS- Equipment failures 10080 XCT
Dear Sir,

Per the NCR-00897 referenced above, please provide a root cause analysis report, signed by the
manufacturer in Germany, design management, identifying the reasons for the 10080 XCT failures
It must be highlighted to you that a failure of the HBSS equipment during BHS testing by levels 4, 3, 2
and 1 commissioning will affect the Engineers decision to accept or reject the BHS system. The HBSS
system must be 99.99% available as specified under section 283310 I item 1.5 - Performance
Requirements
The Contractor must ensure the report is submitted at the earliest, and that the reworks start
immediately to avoid disrupting any BHS commissioning plans. Analysis should include as a minimum:
• What parts are failing
• What are the current failure rates
• Root causes analysis, reasons for the failure ofthese machines and parts
• Describe in detail how the manufacturer will rectify the problem
• Define a time frame, schedule when the rectification works will start and finish
• Define a monitoring period for the reworks to establish that the problem has been
eliminated
• Define how the Contractor will ensure the machine will not fail in the future operations
• Clarify where these machines been installed in existing operations Any replacement of parts and
equipment repairs made during the project execution must be recorded
into the project maintenance records for future reference- refer to letter (2} above.
Your urgency on this matter is required.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Processor Front Fa~ade (PrO} Corner Construction- Follow Up HSE Man~ger
Dear Sir,
We refer to the above correspondence (1) regarding the Processor Front Fa~ade (PrD) Corner
Construction- Follow Up.
The Engineer has the following comments for the various points raised in your correspondence above
and maintaining the same sequence:
1. The Contractor's statements are unsubstantiated and we record that should the Contractor do
not acquire approval for the installation methodology; then the works being carried out are at
the Contractor's risk. Pursuant to Project Specification 084402 Processor Wall Cladding, item 12:
Installation, the Contractor shall obtain approval before undertaking works. We reiterate that
the Contractor has failed to secure approval to the methodology.
2. Please note that DS/0401/8534 was rejected by the Design Consultant because "the loading
onto the permanent structure from the Contractor's proposed temporary works exceeds the
design limits. Contractor to propose an alternative". The Contractor decided to ignore the review
comment and erected the scaffolding despite the rejected calculation.
3. Your installation methodology was not implemented; all the changes should have been
incorporated in the installation methodology and submitted for an approval before undertaking
works as per Project Specification 084402.
4. Please refer to the below table summarizing your lack of compliance with the Project

Specifications, 5. Noted, however, you should ensure that you secure all necessary approvals before
proceeding
to the next stage activity in order to ensure a timely completion and avoid protracted several
inspections.
6. The Engineer's comments are based on site observations against the approved installation
methodology which has not been followed.
7. Please refer to point 2, the Engineer has nothing more to add other than the Contractor elected
to proceed with a methodology that is rejected by the Engineer.
Both the Employer and the Engineer commented during a number of site walks that you may utilize rope
access installers in the same manner as P3 zone panels installation was completed or use MEWP's in the
same manner as you completed P2N glass installation after dismantling the scaffolding which is well
documented by site photographs. The Contractor should carefully study and implement the safe and
most appropriate way of accessing the work fronts.
The Engineer cannot comment on the gaps between the glass being 20-25 mm as to date you haven't
offered these works for inspection. However, the Engineer has issued a Site Observation Report
recording lack of alignment that remains unattended. Furthermore, the Contractor proceeded with P2S
corner fac;:ade installation out of installation sequence which remains incomplete and there are no
shop
drawings available to demonstrate the design changes.
The Contractor has decided to dismantle the scaffolding and utilize MEWP'S. We note that you
completed the fac;:ade erection {P2N) using MEWPS. 8. Please note that during the site walk that
included both the Employer and the Contractor's
Management it was agreed that all fa~ade panels installation will be completed by 31st May
2017, excluding circa 260 panels located in P3 Zone" crown Section only". As of 21st February
2018 the P2S corner was still incomplete and you advised that glass will be available in January
2018. But as of 25 February 2018 there are no resources mobilized to finish glass installation.
We record that the Contractor has elected to proceed with out of sequence installations as a
result, the completion of the fa~ade is delayed from 31st May 2017(excluding the P3 crown) to
March 2018.
9. The Engineer disagrees with your unfounded allegations towards the Engineer and the Design
Consultant. The Contractor should proceed with the work in line with approved methodology
and as stated in point 8 above the completion of the PrO fa~ade is delayed due to delivery of the
glass.
10. The Engineer rejects the Contractor's position as the fa~ade is incomplete till date as stated
above.
11. We note that Point 11 is missed or omitted in your letter.
12. As stated above, the fa~ade remains incomplete and as per the Contractor's statement glass
delivery is scheduled in January 2018. The Contractor did not provide a response to the
Engineer's I Design Consultant's correspondence referenced in correspondence (1) dated 12
August 2017.
The Contractor's letter (1) neither addresses the Engineer's concerns nor provides any justification in
relation to the Contractor's statements and does not provide any explanation regarding the target dates

which have been missed by circa 11 months. The Engineer highlights that as of 25 February 2018 the
Rejection Notice letter MTB-CMA-0401-LTR-07833 remains open.
Yours faithfully,
Subject lack of Progress-Gatehouses
Dear Sir,
We write to express our concerns with regard to the lack of progress of the various trades in the Gate
houses and in particular the activities which have knock on effects on the substation energization and
Cause and Effect deadlines set for the Piers namely, Assa Abloy doors, Ceilings, Light Boxes and Fire
Hose Cabinets.
It is evident that the Contractor has not allocated the necessary supervisory resources to manage its
Subcontractors and coordinate the site activities.
We would like to remind you of the following milestones which are likely to be missed unless the
Contractor takes immediate action to resolve the site management issue and improve the
productivity and control on the Gate Houses:
Pier 4: Cause and Effect Start: 15 May 2018
• W3 Substation Zone - GHs 42, 43, 44 and 45 -Target Energization (Form 4 Submission) of EM
FOBs: 04 March 2018
• W2 Substation Zone - GHs 40 and 41 -Target Energization (Form 4 Submission) of EM FDBs:
07 March 2018
• Wl Substation Zone - GHs 38 and 39 -Target Energization (Form 4 Submission) of EM FDBs:
13 March 2018
Pier 3: Cause and Effect Start: 06 July 2018
• 52 Substation Zone - GHs 22, 23, 33 and 34 -Target Energization (Form 4 Submission) of EM
FOBs: 28 Feb 2018 We request that you provide within 3 days from the date of receipt of this letter a
detailed plan for
the completion of all outstanding items in Piers 3 and 4 Gate Houses that are going to affect the
Energization Dates and Cause and Effect Milestones.
The Contractor is also requested to submit an organizational chart for the GH Management and
inform of the responsible Construction Manager for these works.
Subject:
Wall-to-Wall System

Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (2) in response to our submitted RFVO reference (1) regarding
the subject matter. We hereby provide our response in an effort to resolve this matter at once. Before
responding to the issues raised in your referenced (2) letter, we would like to highlight some of the
relevant Contract conditions.

Responsibility for the Design of the works is identified under Schedule 12 (Specification) of the Contract
and unless it is explicitly identified as a Performance Specification, our view for that portion of the works
is that the design is the Employer’s responsibility.
As mentioned above, the responsibility of the Design and consequently design compliance with the
codes and Local Authority requirements remains solely with the Engineer/Employer. Hence, our
responsibility is to follow the Design and Specifications derived from the Contract Documents
respectively. Thus, with the principles set out in the Contract, during the Tender period we have used
the ISSUED FOR TENDER (IFT) Drawings to prepare and submit our Best And Final Offer (BAFO) on March
2012. As a result, we express our disagreement responding to your comment made in your letter
reference (2) wherein you stated that “the Engineer records that the Contractor’s obligation to comply
with all fire code requirements in areas including emergency exit/egress passageways in unchanged”.
Taking the above into consideration, we hereby further provide detailed comments related to the
foregoing and in response to your letter, as follows:
A. Relevant Facts and Circumstances
Contract information provided before the implementation of Fire direction change by the Engineer
1.
Fire Resistance from Bottom side of the Ceilings
Our Pricing of the Employer's Contract Requirements and in this case the pricing of fire rated ceilings,
during Tender has been based on the limited information provided by the Employer, at the time of
submission. It is a factual and undisputed fact that there is no Specification available for 2hr fire rated
ceilings in the Contract Documents. The IFT drawings during tender and subsequently the IFC Drawings
(Attachment 7) only defined the properties of the fire rated gypsum boards (i.e. GYB-04 and/or GYB-01).
Under Section 092900 of the Specification, GYB-04 is specified as a “Fire-resistant gypsum board” and
GYB-01 is regular non-fire rated gypsum board. It is noted that, the Drawings and Specifications do not
provide any additional information in regards to the type of system for fire rated ceilings (Attachment
10).
The Contract Fire Strategy report shows all the fire scenarios from bottom side of the ceiling surface
(Please refer to Attachment 3). Our interpretation, after thorough investigation, is that of a suspended
ceiling system with 2 layers gypsum board that provides 2 hrs fire rating and is fire resistant from
bottom. Changing the fire requirements into multiple ignitions (from top and bottom) required changing
of suspension into fire rated LID type secondary steel to provide 2hrs fire rating, which at a later stage
was implemented in various areas as shown in our RFVO-/0401-1325-SC/039/B Attachment 11.
Moreover, in any circumstance that the single ignition comes from above the ceiling and if we take into
consideration the IFT/IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D which shows GYB-04 and
considering the fact that framings are exposed, it is evident that the suspension will not be able to hold
a 2 hour fire as specified.

Notwithstanding the above, we have followed the provisions of the Contract and pursuant to Clause 9.6
[Priority of Documents] and taking into consideration the fact that the Specification(s) are established at
a higher order of precedence than Drawings and since the Drawings did not provide enough
information, we based our pricing of the fire rated ceilings on GYB-04 gypsum board as per the
Specification using a GWB hanging system (Attachment 9) which provides 2hrs Fire resistance from
bottom, thus meeting the Contract Requirements. The details of the GWB system are shown on
Attachment 9 (GWB is a typical 2 hour fire rated ceiling from Gypsemna product range).
We also used the Fire Strategy Report (Attachment 3) to investigate all types of fire rated ceiling
systems, which could be implemented. You are well aware that the Fire Strategy Report is the basis of
the Employer's design and it has no use to us until it is developed into designs and constructible IFC
documents capable of being implemented for the execution of the Works. Nevertheless, in this case the
Fire Strategy Report shows all fire scenario analysis from bottom side of the ceilings.
Accordingly, as per the above information and after investigating all possibilities provided in the
Contract Documents, on March 2012 we submitted our BAFO including a 2hrs GWB Fire Rated Hanging
System, also specified in the Bill of Quantities (BoQ) Bill No.3 Section J Item E (Attachment 4) which
provides 2hrs Fire resistance from bottom as outlined in the Fire Strategy Report. Please refer to
Attachment 9 wherein Specifications and information from the manufacturer are provided, for the GWB
fire rated ceiling accordingly. In addition to this, your attention is also drawn on the said section of the
BoQ which not only clearly specifies the GWB system but also specifies that the properties of the
Gypsum boards shall be GYB-01 non-fire rated, instead of GYB-04.
2.
Changing Fire direction by the Engineer
The Tender Bulletins are expressly incorporated into the Contract to clarify and resolve discrepancies in
the Scope of Works. This was agreed between the parties to set limits on the physical Scope of Works
and to establish accountability for further changes thereto.
Prior to the submission of BAFO (March 2012), under Query no. RFC-701 (Attachment 6) of the Tender
Queries 12 Tender Bulletins 01 to 18, we requested clarification regarding the Fire rating of the egress
passageways. The Engineer responded that the “fire rated ceiling areas are defined in G-04 set” wherein
there is no such information available in G-04 drawings and that GYB-01 (regular non-fire rated gypsum
board) ceiling shall be used in egress passageways. The Engineer also stated that “rated ceilings at
egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings to be issued at a later date)”. Accordingly, even though the
Engineer specified a non-fire rated ceiling (i.e. GYB-01), as an experienced Contractor we proceeded
with due diligence investigating all Contract Documents, all provided information, various
materials/systems in the market and included in our Contract pricing GYB-04 fire rated gypsum board
combined with GWB system.
After the submission of BAFO, on May 2012 the Engineer issued the revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A
62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D_ dated 24 May 2012 inclusive of the detail (Detail No 8) for the required
properties of the Fire Rated Ceiling in the egress passageways. The system indicated GYB-04 which was

in contradiction to the previous comments made by the Engineer on the Tender Bulletins, wherein you
specified GYB-01.
In addition to the above, please be informed that there is also a contradiction on the IFC drawings,
wherein IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 00 shows GYB-04 (fire resistant gypsum board)
but the legend of the current IFC ceiling plans (A-42 series) still shows the ceilings as GYB-01 which is a
regular non-fired gypsum board.
All of the above referenced Engineer actions constitute a Variation. However, our intention is not to
claim any additional amounts for the contradiction or discrepancies, but only for the change of system.
Therefore, you are requested to urgently re-consider your comments forthwith and/or to further
elaborate upon the basis of the requested changes.
Furthermore, due to the fact that the above changes have been instructed by you and are a requirement
of the Project, you are requested pursuant to Clause 20.1.4 (b) to issue revised Drawings and/or
Specification and an Engineer's Variation Order pursuant to Clause 11.3.3 [Instructions of the Engineer]
and 20.1.1 (a) [Right to Vary], respectively.
3.
New Requirements introduced by the Engineer
Pursuant to Clause 12.14 (h) [Health and Safety Procedures] “the Contractor shall comply with all
recommendations regarding fire protection made by Civil Defence Fire Services and any insurers
providing insurance in respect of the Works, including regulation…”. Please note that the 2hr fire rated
ceilings (Detail no.8 in Drawing MTC_A-62 _B_L_ _ _ _ 00.640(00)), although there is no cross reference
to this section in the IFC ceiling drawings, we record that the referred section cannot be considered a
fire rated ceiling system from both sides due to the fact that it has exposed framing structure in the
ceiling void which does not meet the Civil Defence Requirements. Furthermore, UAE Fire & Life Safety
Code of Practice item 35.2, does not permit a 'hanging system' for such a fire rated ceiling from top.
In light of the above, it is a factual and undisputed fact that the change of system, which is a Variation to
the Contract, introduced by the Engineer after agreeing on the Contract Price will not be approved by
any authority in the UAE.
Moreover, taking into consideration the above and the referred IFC drawing MTC-A-62-TB-L_-_-_-00640(00), we are of the opinion that the changes introduced by you will not be approved due to the
following reasons:
i.
No certification available for a horizontal shaft wall system to be used as a rated ceiling system;
ii.
This type of system is not available from any manufacturer in UAE;
iii.
The IFC configuration shows a hanging system with the fire direction from the bottom which is
not valid for fire direction from the top;
iv.
Refer to Attachment 9 – GYB-04 horizontal shaft wall ceiling system is shown in IFC drawings.
This system is from USG and listed in their brochure. USG website mentions that this system is not UL

tested. This system considers the fire direction from the corridor side and there are limitations to the
width of the system.
4.
Engineer’s Acceptance of RFVO for fire rated top and bottom Gypsum LID system
Please note that RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 signed and agreed on 23 January 2018 is regarding
the additional gypsum LID system, which is a system incorporating top and bottom fire rated gypsum
boards, and is added in various areas to comply with the fire protection requirements. Please be
reminded that the mentioned system has been accepted in principle as a Variation Order and it is priced
using new unit rates.
In view of the above, in principle you have accepted the fact that a new fire rated system, other than the
one priced in our Contract BoQ, has been incorporated in the project including top and bottom fire
rating.
Therefore, as per our comments described in this letter and the below facts:
i.
Our Contract pricing for the egress passageways was based on GWB bottom fire rated GYB-04
system;
ii.
The new system introduced by you cannot be used in the project due to the reasons specified in
item 3 above; and
iii.
A new system has been accepted by you in principle as a Variation Order (i.e. LID) which
incorporates top and bottom fire rating.
You are hereby requested to make a determination to issue a Variation Order, in accordance with your
obligations under Conditions of Contract clause 11.4.1, which set out “…the Engineer shall make a fair
determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the
Contract.”. However, as per your letter reference (2) you indicated that the changes described herein,
do not constitute a Variation. Please be advised that the comments forming the basis of this action are
not justified and are contrary to the Design and configuration of the Fire Rating System as set out in the
Contract and discussed herein.
B. Additional Information in regards to History of Events
On 14th January 2016, we raised an RFI reference RFI/0401/10736 (Attachment 5) to the Engineer, in
which we requested Clarification regarding the following points:
•
There isn’t any fire-rating test and certification available for the sloped fire rated ceiling GYB-04,
and requested the Engineer advise how to proceed with these locations; and
•
Some areas in IFC drawings are only mentioned as 2 hour fire-rated ceiling without any ceiling
type/system specified and requested the Engineer to specify the ceiling type.
On 2nd February 2016, the Contractor received the Engineer’s reply to the RFI-10736, in which the
Engineer stated that the fire rated sloped ceiling is required to be fire resistance from both sides (top
and bottom) & the ceiling type for the 2 hour fire-rated ceiling without tag type is updated as GYB-04.
C. Basis for Entitlement to a Variation

The Employer through its Engineer and/or Consultants should have provided a responsible and
compliant design including undertaking the liability for Fire Rated Ceiling. Please note that all
Specifications, Drawings and other Contract Documents should have been provided prior to our
submission of BAFO and subsequently the day of Contract signing, to set out all various types of
Materials and Systems. Therefore, we pursue our Contractual rights and we inform you that the
combined selection of Materials, Systems, Products and the design shall not fall onto the Contractor but
remains an Employer’s responsibility.
It is noted that you were obliged to incorporate the Systems referred herein, within the overall design
and to deliver in a timely manner "Issued for Tender/Construction" documents strictly according to your
intents.
Accordingly, the Engineer’s requirement to introduce a new system (after the BAFO submission and
subsequently after the Contract Signing) changing the fire-resistance direction from bottom (as clearly
illustrated during the tender stage) to become fire resistant from top and/or from both sides is a
variation to the Contractor’s Scope of works pursuant to Clauses under 20 [Variations and Adjustments].
The said changes have resulted in an increased number of layers (from 2 to 5 layers) in order to achieve
this requirement.
Furthermore, the Supporting/Hanging system is also impacted due to the following reasons:
As a result of the change in the fire direction (source of ignition from ceiling void side instead of the
corridor side) and as the code, UAE Fire & Life Safety Code of Practice item 35.2, does not permit a
'hanging system' for such rated ceiling, the Contractor had to develop a secondary steel framing system
that would support the fire rated ceilings as referred in drawing MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D, ceiling
detail No 8, which cannot be certified as a 2hr fire rated ceiling from top and/or both side. Accordingly,
concealed secondary steel beams were introduced to transfer the ceiling loads to the adjoining
blockwork. For locations where the fire rated ceiling interfaced with fire rated drywall partitions,
concealed secondary steel posts were designed to transfer the beam loads to the floor slab. This beampost secondary steel design has been validated through calculations for various spans of the corridors.
From a discrepancy/inconsistency between Contracts documents point of view, Drawings and comments
that contradict each other and do not conform to the Specifications, require the Engineer to resolve the
discrepancies/inconsistencies between the Drawings and Specification. A resolution which does not
conform to the order of precedence of the Contract documents and includes contradictions constitutes
a Variation.
D. Conclusion
The failure of the Employer during the pre-contract period is noted, in which the Employer was
purportedly engaged with the design Consultant/Engineer to adopt the fire protection requirements and
incorporate all necessary changes to issue IFT Drawings. This prompted the Contractor to seek visibility

into the Design and the fire requirements seeking visibility for the matter described herein. As a result,
your failure to provide sufficient information resulted in the changes discussed in this letter.
Pursuant to Clause 12.1.6 (k) [The Contractor’s General Obligations], be advised that during Tender, we
had exercised best practice in reviewing all Drawings, Design and Specifications set out in the Contract.
Nevertheless, your failure to provide all information as described herein is a Design Error which could
not be reasonably identified by an Experienced Contractor.
Moreover, pursuant to Clause 12.1.6 (c) “The works shall be constructed in accordance with Schedule 12
(Specification)”, Please note that, to our best understanding we have achieved all requirement provided
under the Contract.
Consequently, the Engineer’s requirement to change the fire-resistance direction from bottom, to
become fire resistance from top and/or both sides is a Variation to the Contractor’s Scope of works, and
the implementation of this requirement is a direct resultant on the ceiling itself as following:
•
Necessitate increasing number of layers from 2 layers up to 5 layers in order to achieve such
requirement.
•
Using fire proofed secondary steel system to support the GYB-04 ceiling type in order to achieve
the required fire resistance from top and/or both sides of the ceiling as instructed by the Engineer
through its reply to the RFI-10736 & RFI-12974
We hereby provide a notice of claim pursuant to Clause 27.1 [Contractor’s Claims] for the adjustment of
the Contract Price. Failing to undertake the Engineer’s duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the
progress of the Works and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and
an increase to the Contract Price. Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to Clause 9.10.3 [Drawings
or Instruction] that we intend to claim for an extension of the Time for Completion and the additional
Cost implications.
We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
as a Variation by means of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising
as a result of any (if any) abortive works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or
the confirmations mandated by Conditions of Contract Clauses 20.1.4, 20.1.5 and 20.3.1 [Variations and
Adjustments].
To conclude, we request you to consider the facts and circumstances as well as the rights and
obligations of the Parties under the Contract for the purpose of making a fair determination strictly in
accordance with Clause 11.4 [Determinations].
In any event, our response above has been made in the spirit of cooperation and is made without
prejudice to our rights under the Contract and at Law.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Cloisall Disruption Claim

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11550/18 dated 22 February 2018 in
response to our letter reference MTB/TCA/CLOISALL /L/001220 dated 05 February 2018 whereby we
rejected your claim for ‘Wall Cladding Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 19,832,798 submitted to us
via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017. We rejected your
claim on the basis that it is of a global nature and lacking in the requisite detail and in this regard also
advised you of what would be necessary in order for us to consider any subsequent (revised) claim for
disruption.
Regrettably you letter is largely a reiteration of your submitted claim and as such does not alter our view
that you have not discharged the burden of proof regarding your asserted entitlement to claim and/or
that your valuation represents the actual additional cost that you have incurred solely and directly as a
result of disruptive events for which we are contractually liable to compensate you.
For the record, we do not accept that the productivity that you allege was achieved for Ceiling Panels
may in any event be used as the basis for the productivity that you could have achieved for the Wall
Cladding. Moreover, if that were acceptable, then a 3 month sample (in particular where the
productivity of one month seemingly has a disproportionate and beneficial impact on the average) and
an unsupported “reduction factor” of 12% would not be acceptable. The contemporary records adduced
to evidence the alleged productivity are also lacking in the detail necessary for objective verification.
Our own view is that you grossly underestimated the complexity of the Wall Cladding works and as a
consequence seek redress through a spurious disruption claim. In this regard, we will conduct our own
analysis of the productivity achieved for the Wall Cladding works as identified in grids/panels as a
sample which was not the subject of any of the alleged events. We have also recorded in our several
delay notices regarding wall cladding works that you have failed to achieve the targeted or the planned
dates due lack of manpower, poor material, delivery sequence and uncontrolled material segregation
which also affected the follow on trades.
You also appear to seek to include in the disruption claim items that you failed to notify and/or claim as
variations; that is, resources utilised to implement design changes and the separate scaffold that you say
you were forced to provide as a consequence of our instruction to dismantle the birdcage scaffolding.
We cannot however and will not be held to account for your failure to comply with your contractual
obligations regarding variation and the associated waiver of entitlement. Notwithstanding the
contractual position, we note that you have not adduced any evidence of actual cost of the scaffold that
you say was deployed.
Finally, we note that you cannot identify the impact of the events that you allege caused disruption due
to the complexity of the project, concurrent events and the like. Whilst acknowledging that this is
difficult, you will also no doubt also appreciate that the simple global claim that you have proffered
covers over a multitude of Subcontractor risk items and as such is equally difficult for us to accept.
For the avoidance of any doubt, our valuation of your submitted claim is nil.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:

Commercial Disputes and Breach of Subcontract

Dear Sir,
We would like to emphasize on the above subject matter and further to our numerous meetings and
emails, included but not limited to those referred herewith, you are hereby informed of your continuous
failure to meet your contractual obligations and responsibilities and further failure to submit the
required RFVO Submissions within the time frame. So far, we have experienced the following
misconducts which could result to a breach of the Subcontract:
•
Despite our numerous requests, your commercial representative has never been fully mobilized
on the Site since the commencement date of the Subcontract and due to this reason many issues have
arisen. Please be informed that, your commercial representative is hard to reach and does not reply to
emails in a timely manner. Kindly be notified that your representative is showing unprofessional
behavior in the coordination and communication with our staff in many occasions. This is a failure of
your Subcontract Obligations, pursuant to the provisions under Clause 12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and particularly Clause 12.11.2, wherein “The
Subcontractor shall be responsible for its construction activities on the Site, and shall coordinate its own
activities with those of the Consultants and Other Subcontractors so as not to obstruct, disrupt or delay
work being performed by the Consultants and Other Subcontractors”;
•
As mentioned in our letter reference MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000486 dated 3 January 2018, your
direct communication with the Employer/Engineer without our knowledge is totally unacceptable and is
considered a breach of the Subcontract pursuant to Subcontract Agreement 14.9.3 [Subcontractor’s
Personnel] and 9.18.1 [Independent Subcontractor] which states that “The Subcontractor shall act as an
independent contractor in performing the Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its
employees and all Sub-subcontractors and shall in no case represent, or be the agent of, the Contractor
or act in the Contractor’s name without the prior written consent of the Contractor”.
•
Furthermore, your intention to stop the works due to the foregoing has come to our attention.
In the event whereby the aforementioned proves to be truthful and you indeed intend to stop the
works, then you will have to substantiate your entitlement to suspend the Works according to the
Subcontract Agreement Clause 23.1 [Subcontractor's Entitlement to Suspend Work]. Please note that if
you fail to present legitimate reasons for suspending the works, then as per Clause 22.2 [Termination by
Contractor for Subcontractor Default] you will be held fully responsible for breach of contract.
Consequently, you will be held fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such potential
breaches and the associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under
the Contract with the Employer. We put on record the effects that may arise out of potentially multiple
breaches of the Subcontract provisions as per Clause 22.2.2 (c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by
Contractor for Subcontractor Default].

Moreover, your attention is brought to Clauses 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations], 8.1.1, 8.1.2, 8.1.3 and
8.1.4 [Reliance upon Subcontractor] and specifically to Clause 8.1.3 which states the following:
“The Subcontractor's duties, obligations and responsibilities under and in connection with the
Subcontract, and the Subcontractor's liability to the Contractor for the consequences of any breach of
the Subcontract, negligence or other default shall in no way be excused, waived, negated or diminished
by:
(a) any process of review, checking, inspection, examination, testing, monitoring or supervision which
may be carried out by the Contractor, the Contractor's Personnel, the Contractor's Affiliates, other
Consultants or any other persons appointed or authorized by the Contractor to carry out such tasks; or
(b) any acknowledgement, encouragement, approval or consent, or any comment, proposal, request,
notice, decision, direction, instruction or certificate which might be made, given or issued by the
Contractor or any of the aforementioned persons during the carrying out or as a consequence of such
tasks or on the recommendation or advice of the Subcontractor”.
In addition to the above, you are reminded that you are obligated to continue with the works pursuant
to the signed Collateral Warranty and Subcontract Clauses 12.9.3 [Subcontracting] and all relevant
provisions under Clause 8 [Subcontractor May Not Terminate Or Discontinue] Schedule 7-Part 1
[Subcontractor Collateral Warranty].
Furthermore, please refer to the Conditions of Contract Clause 20.3.11 [Variation Procedure] which
state “The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of any of the
Subcontract Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be
affected by the Value Engineering Proposal or proposed Variation) whilst the Contractor considers
and/or the Parties discuss and endeavor to agree the Subcontractors proposals.”
In addition to the above, please be informed that an official issuance of Variation Orders for your
submitted RFVO’s, is pending with the Engineer. In the meantime, in the absence of the issuance of the
pending Variation Orders from the Engineer and as a gesture of good will, we have been certifying and
releasing on-account payments, as shown below:
The above figures clearly show that we have been assisting you financially by certifying more than what
you have been actually applying for. Although your cumulative progress application on Variations is
5,237,273 AED as of December 2017, we have made on-account payments as follows:
•
13,711,500 AED for Variations Orders; and
•
22,606,342.57 AED MOS related to Variations.
The above amounts sum up to 36,317,842.57 AED in total for on-account payments for Variations.
In addition to this, we did not reflect Engineer’s deductions on Variation MOS Payments in your
payment certifications. As of today, we have not received any Variation Order from the Engineer
regarding your outstanding RFVO’s. However, we have been issuing Variation Orders to you in order to
support you financially. Despite the issuance of Variation Orders No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 from our side, we have
not yet received the signed copies from you yet. You are well aware of the fact that the certification and

subsequently the payment of a Variation Order is subject to approval and signature of the Variation
Order from both Parties.
Apart from the abovementioned failures by you, with reference to our letter MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000507
dated 6 February 2018 and numerous correspondences and emails between the Parties, we write to
inform you that despite our efforts, the Exchange Rate used in the Engineer’s Assessments for all RFVOs
and consequently Variations Orders is determined as 4.30 AED/EUR by the Employer. We believe this is
fair and reasonable based on the rate fluctuations of the concerned period.
Consequently, be informed that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred
by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to proceed with the works
expeditiously and without delay will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement
Clauses including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractors Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Exchange Rate Applied for RFVO’s

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we write to inform about the Employer’s determination of the
exchange rate related to RFVO’s and consequently Variations Orders. Please be informed that the
Engineer has issued its final determination of the exchange rate for all RFVO submissions, which has
been assessed at 4.30 AED/€ by the Employer.
In view of the above, please be informed that the Employer’s assessment was based on your submitted
RFVO’s, taking into consideration your relevant substantiations respectively, provided therein.
In the meantime, in the absence of the issuance of the pending Variation Orders from the Engineer and
as a gesture of good will, we had proceeded with the release of on-account payments, as shown below:
Monthly Payment Application:
Jan 2018
•
Direct Works
•
Variations (Agreed)

Submitted

Certified

Remarks

The above figures clearly show that we have been assisting you financially by certifying more than what
you have been actually applying for.

Please be informed that your intention to stop the works due to the foregoing has come to our
attention. In the event whereby the aforementioned proves to be truthful and you indeed intend to stop
the works, then you will be in default as per Clause 22.2 [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor
Default] and you will be held fully responsible for breach of contract. Consequently, you will be held fully
responsible for the consequences arising out of such potential breaches and the associated knock-on
effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under the Contract with the Employer. We put
on record the effects that may arise out of potentially multiple breaches of the Subcontract provisions
as per Clause 22.2.2 (c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default].
Furthermore, your attention is brought to Clauses 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations], 8.1.1, 8.1.2, 8.1.3 and
8.1.4 [Reliance upon Subcontractor] and specifically to Clause 8.1.3 which states the following:
“The Subcontractor's duties, obligations and responsibilities under and in connection with the
Subcontract, and the Subcontractor's liability to the Contractor for the consequences of any breach of
the Subcontract, negligence or other default shall in no way be excused, waived, negated or diminished
by:
(a) any process of review, checking, inspection, examination, testing, monitoring or supervision which
may be carried out by the Contractor, the Contractor's Personnel, the Contractor's Affiliates, other
Consultants or any other persons appointed or authorised by the Contractor to carry out such tasks; or
(b) any acknowledgement, encouragement, approval or consent, or any comment, proposal, request,
notice, decision, direction, instruction or certificate which might be made, given or issued by the
Contractor or any of the aforementioned persons during the carrying out or as a consequence of such
tasks or on the recommendation or advice of the Subcontractor”.
In addition to the above, you are reminded that you are obligated to continue with the works pursuant
to the signed Collateral Warranty and Subcontract Clauses 12.9.3 [Subcontracting] and all relevant
provisions under Clause 8 [Subcontractor May Not Terminate Or Discontinue] Schedule 7- Part 1
[Subcontractor Collateral Warranty].
Furthermore, please refer to the Conditions of Contract Clause 20.3.11 [Variation Procedure] which
state “The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of any of the
Subcontract Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be
affected by the Value Engineering Proposal or proposed Variation) whilst the Contractor considers
and/or the Parties discuss and endeavour to agree the Subcontractors proposals.”
Consequently, be informed that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred
by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to proceed with the works
expeditiously and without delay will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement
Clauses including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractors Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.

Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Following the email communication referenced in (4) above, please be advised that pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] the Stainless Steel Cladding (DCM-01) for Pier Pavilions, has been
de-scoped from your scope of works with immediate effect and you are hereby instructed not to
proceed with these aforesaid works.
Therefore, you are kindly required to submit your Variation Cost proposal as per the relevant Clauses of
the Subcontract Agreement for such omission in order for us to issue a Variation Order accordingly.
This is for your information, record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Notice of Likely Delay No. xxxx
Variation Order Confirmation
Dear Sir,
With reference to your letter (_) above please be advised that the comments, clarifications and/or
instructions contained therein constitute a Variation.
The Engineer issued the following [list below the Engineer’s information which constitutes a Variation]:
1.
___
2.
___
[Describe the changes by illustrating change from the original contract Documents in order to support
the necessary confirmation that the new information constitutes a Variation; attach relevant documents
as necessary to show the basis of entitlement]
A.
If the information provided is partial, incomplete or not capable of being implemented with
immediate effect without further clarity and details then keep this part A, and delete part B, then
continue to part C. If not, delete this part A and continue to Part B.
The information provided in the document(s) outlined above which include comments, clarifications and
/ or instructions are not complete or adequate. As a result such information does not constitute an
instruction and revised or additional Drawings and/or revised or/additional Specification for the purpose
of execution of Works. In addition the information is discrepant with previously issued Drawings and/or
Specification Sections.
You are requested to issue complete fully developed, coordinated and conformed Drawings and/or
Specification Sections which clearly expresses the Employer’s requirements free of discrepancies or
conflicts with previously issued Drawings and/or Specification Sections.

Be reminded that the Engineer is solely responsible to resolve and rectify all errors, omissions,
ambiguities, inconsistencies, discrepancies and any other inadequacies, defects or deficiencies in the
Drawings and/or Specifications. Unreasonably refusing and/or taking any action contrary to the
specified professional duties of the Engineer is a breach of Contract and an act of prevention.
We are unable to undertake such changes without an instruction and revised Drawings and/or
Specification in accordance with the Contract.
B.
If the information provided is complete and capable of being implemented with immediate
effect
but no formal Variation Order has been instructed, then use this part B, delete part A and continue to
part C:
In accordance with Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4 (b), the Contractor is of the view that the
Engineer has issued instructions constituting a Variation which are not in the form of or have not been
confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
Also, please be advised that you have not resolved the Contractor notified errors, omissions,
ambiguities, inconsistencies, discrepancies or other deficiencies in the Drawings and/or Specifications
“by deferring to the order of precedence set out” in Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.1 as set out in
Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.2.
You are hereby requested to make a determination in accordance with your obligations under
Conditions of Contract clause 11.4.1, which set out “…the Engineer shall make a fair determination
strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant circumstances but paying
particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the Contract.” (emphasis
added)
In this regard please take due regard of the Variation “test” in Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.2,
which expressly sets out an exacting criteria and threshold for testing whether such Engineer’s
instructions and/or clarifications constitute Variations or not. The Engineer is obliged to apply these
provisions “strictly in accordance with these Conditions” since these provisions are provided specifically
for this purpose.
We are unable to undertake changes pursuant to informally revised drawings or sketches constituting a
Variation without a formal Variation Order or a confirmation of same.
C.
Ending
Please issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification as a Variation by means
of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising as a result of abortive
works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or the confirmations mandated by
Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4, 20.1.5 and 20.3.1.
Failing to undertake the Engineer’s duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the
Works and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and an increase to
the Contract Price.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to CoC 9.10.3 that we intend to claim for an extension of the
Time for Completion and the additional Cost implications.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Reply – Notice on RFI Responses

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (3) above regarding the aforementioned subject.
However, the RFIs in question are still awaiting the Engineer’s response which normally takes 21 days
after the submission date (not to mention the Contractor’s internal review period prior to submission to
the Engineer).
Please be advised that the Contractor is taking his proactive action in order to have these RFIs
responded expeditiously to avoid further delay.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Value Engineering Struct 02 and Struct 09
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge the receipt of your letter referenced above requesting information regarding Struct 02
and 09.
Before responding to the questions stated in your referenced letter, we would highlight some of the
relevant Contract conditions.
The Contract Documents, which were prepared by the Employer, define the obligations of the Parties.
Generally, the design of the Works are the obligation of the Employer, but more specifically the design
of the Accepted Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items are the sole obligation
of the Employer as stated in the Conditions of Contract at Clause 9.7.1, " ... For the avoidance of doubt
the
design of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items shall be the responsibility of
the Employer ... ".
Furthermore, with regard to pre-Contract submissions and events, Conditions of Contract Clause 9.19
[Entire Agreement] states that " ... The Contract shall constitute the entire agreement between the
Parties
in relation to the Works and shall supersede and extinguish any previous agreements, arrangements,
understandings and representations relating to the Contract which are not set out in or expressly
incorporated into the Contract...".
Taking the above into consideration, we respond to your questions:
1. During the BAFO Stage who initiated the changes to the roof Steelwork that resulted in VE 02 and
VE09?
Struct 02 (VE 02) and Struct 09 (VE 09) were initiated by Employer in BAFO Stage, please refer to
Request for Best and Final Offer Document- Section 1- Clause 1.1 issued by ADAC on 14/02/2011.
2. From that starting point how did vour own proposal develop?
Our pricing of the Employer's proposed value engineering option was based on the limited

information provided by the Employer. Any sketches that we submitted for inclusion into the Contract
served only to explain how we had priced Struct 02 and 09 and to assist the Employer in
its investigation when value engineering the primary (Struct 02) and secondary (Struct 09) girders.
At no time have we offered a proposal for Struct 02 and 09 or undertaken to design these Accepted
Value Engineering items.
3. What was your recollection of how the VE's were established? Did you consider, or were you asked,
or instructed, to take on any design responsibility? And if so by whom?
At the Employer's request, VE proposals were submitted by tenderers in their 13 Nov 2011
submissions. We did not include any proposal for value engineering of the structural steel roof at
that time.
Subsequently the Employer issued a "Request for Best and Final Offer" (BAFO), wherein it was
stated that " ... Tenderers must provide cost savings for all the Value Engineering Items set out in
Section 4 of these BAFO Documents ... ". This was the first time that Struct 02 and 09 was made
available to TCA JV to price. Additionally, the BAFO documents stated that " ... None of the Value
Engineering Items are intended to be implemented by way of a Design-Build process ... ".
At no time did we consider nor have we been instructed to take any design responsibility or liability
for these value engineered options.
The Contractor is ONLY responsible to " ... cooperate and coordinate with the Employer and the
Master Architect ... " in the finalisation of the necessary design when required by the Employer or
the Engineer.
4. Who do you believe carried the risk for the VE's as they were lump sum savings forming part of the
Contract Sum and not subject to variation?
The scope of Accepted Value Engineering items is defined by Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 (Bill of
Quantities), which shall be holistically explanatory according to the Value Engineering Items
definition in the Contract.
The Contract is clear that the Employer is 'solely' respo nsible for the design of the Works and the
full development of value engineering options. Therefore, the risk of implementation to secure the
benefit of the value engineering savings lies with the Employer.
In the event the value engineered option were to be fully developed within the intent of the VE
description, the commercial risk lies with the Contractor.
In the event the value engineered option were to be partially developed, then the commercial risk
lies with the Contractor for that part developed and with the Employer for that part not developed.
The Accepted Value Engineering items have been priced lump sum against the definitions in
Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities). The Contract does not state that the lump sum
amounts are not subject to variation. On the contrary, in the event a Value Engineered item was
not instructed through IFC Drawings by the Employer or the extent of the value engineered part
was not in accordance with the defined scope of the Accepted Value Engineering item then this
would be a Variation to the Contract. This is confirmed by the Engineer in its letter ref: MTC-CMATCA0401-LTR-00093 dated 21 November 2012 (copy attached marked "A").
In conclusion, the risk for design and implementation of value engineered items in accordance with
the Contract remains fully with the Employer. 5. With the design of the VE's still to be completed whv
were the VE's included in the contract as 'firm'

figures and not provisional VE and why did you accept them?
We respectfully suggest that you liaise with the Employer's cost consultant for the answer to this
one. The Employer issued the Tender and BAFO documents and the tenderers complied.
6. When were you informed and by whom that the revised steelwork design of the roof as envisaged
by VE 02 and VE 09 had been abandoned and that you were to construct the roo{in accordance with
the IFC drawings? Do you have documentary evidence that you can provide to support your view?
The Contract contains Milestone E1020 for the issuance of "IFC Drawing & Specs for Structural Stee l
Installations" by 8 December 2012, being 105 days after NTC.
On 17 October 2012, at a meeting with ADAC, the Engineer and ourselves, it was noted that ARUP
assessment of primary girders was that the value engineering Struct 02 would not be achieved. In
addition it was noted that ARUP's design remit excluded arches and backstays thereby limiting the
full potential to investigate value engineering savings. Our letter 0054 dated 18 October 2012,
attached marked "B", made further suggestions to the Engineer for value engineering the design.
On 24 October 2012 a telephonic conference took place between the Employer, Engineer, KPF,
Arup, RBG (China State engineering consultant) and ourselves. The Minutes of this meeting (ref:
reference MTB-ACM-VES-MOM-0009, attached marked "C") record that the " ... Primary girders will
remain as designed and as shown in the IFC Drawings ... ". Further, the Minutes stated that
" .. .Secondary girders ... will be re-designed by ARUP ... ".
By Contract, we are obliged to follow the instructions of the Engineer and to construct the Works in
accordance with the IFC Drawings issued to us under the instruction of the Engineer from time to
time.
Due to the substantial number of IFC Drawings issued under Bulletins and responses to thousands
of RFI's, we have not been able to establish if Struct 02 and 09 were implemented in full or partially
until the last of the related IFC Drawings had been issued by the Engineer.
7. Why in your view was the revised steelwork design rejected?
We respectfully suggest that you liaise with the Employer's design consultant for the answer to this
one. As the Employer is responsible for the design of the Works and the Accepted Value
Engineering items is defined by Schedule 24, we are not in the position to respond.
8. Can you show that your VE 02 and VE 09 proposals would have worked, meeting all the
requirements of the design brief and the specification.
Please note that Struct 02 and 09 were the Employer's proposals and not ours. In addition the
Employer was in fu ll control of the design and privy to all design information, and not us. Kindly
coordinate with the Employer's design Consultant for the answer to this question.
A question that perhaps should be asked of the design Consultant is:
Had the design Consultant been given more time (assuming construction had not commenced)
co uld he have developed Struct 02 and Struct 09 into an alternative design that would have met
all the requirements of t he design brief and the specification? 9. When VE 02 and VE 09 were not
carried out why did it take you until April 2015 to raise this issue as
a claim?
We have not raised the issue of Struct 02 and 09 as a claim for not being carried out.
In the absence of a Variation Order, or instruction of the Engineer, that the Employer would not be
implementing Struct 02 and 09, and having completed our interrogation of the numerous Drawings

issued for the structural steel roof at that time, we have submitted our RFVO's 0401 and 0500 on
30 April 2015 and 11 April 2015 respectively for the reversal of the Accepted Value Engineering
amounts - the Employer having failed to take up these VE options.
We would advise that the last IFC Drawings issued, which could have contained design changes
related to Struct 02 and 09, were contained in Bulletin 167 issued to us on 29 June 2015.
10. Did you ever submit a formal claim? /( so when? And to whom? Can we please have a copy of that
claim?
The reversal of Accepted Value Engineering item amounts if not implemented is a variation to the
Works for which we make RFVO submittals. Only after receiving the Engineer's rejection of this
submittal would we be compelled to make a claim under clause 27.1.
We trust that our responses above will assist the Engineer to conclude that our RFVO submissions are
just and that the Accepted Value Engineering items Struct 02 and 09 are to be reversed, a Variation
Order issued for the submitted amounts and payment made by the Employer as a matter of urgency.
In any event, our response above have been made in the spirit of cooperation and are made without
prejudice to our rights under the Contract and at Law.
Yours Faithfully,
Paul
Subject: Value Engineering Item Arch-91 Omit Adjustable Top Hats Sections at Main Roof
Dear Sir,
We write to advise the Engineer that Value Engineering Item Arch-91 savings have not been realized.
Please be advised that the IFC Drawings were reissued as originally provided (i.e. by retaining the top
hats). As such the Value Engineer Item savings were not realized as intended.
The Value Engineering Item description states the following;
' .. Omit the adjustable top hat sections at main roof. Rotate the structural metal deck on main roof by
90 degrees and use deeper metal deck section to maintain overall roof build up height. No impact on
form and curvature of roof profile is accepted ... '
Given the minimum radii of 16m (N-S direction) and 448m (E-W direction) and the purlin geometry, it
appears that it was not possible to maintain the original double curvature/warping of the roof. We
therefore conclude that the Employer requires the top hats in order to maintain the original shape of
the roof.
Based on our own investigations, it became abundantly clear that a facetted profile cannot be
overcome by modifications to the supporting structure of the roof. This conclusion is supported by
our specialty Subcontractor M/s Chadwick SEC (LLC) as per the enclosed hereto letter ref. ADIA-NG0039 dated 17 July 2013.
Furthermore, Arch-91 was proposed solely on the basis of omitting the top hats as defined for the
Value Engineering Item. Clearly this was not achievable without reverting to the top hat such than
" ... No impact on form and curvature of the roof profile."
Having reinstated the top hats, we respectfully request that the proposed Value Engineering Item
savings for Arch-91 be returned to the Contractor.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: value Engineering Item MEP-19 {HVAC Hydronic ABS Piping) Realization of MEP 19 Value
Engineering Item
Dear Sir,
We refer to Engineer's letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-lTR-01126 dated 02 February 2014 and respond
as
follows.
We reject the Engineer's notion that the risk of using ABS pipes is a matter associated with means and
methods, and therefore a Contractor responsibility. The Engineer failed to acknowledge clearly
identified
issues and the responsibility for such design decisions. We provided abundant engineering ass.essments
to
show that the Specified Material is inappropriate and would be cause for serious performance issues
and
we reassert our rebuttal of the Engineer's opinion that a hybrid plastic/steel system "would perform
any·
different to an all ERW steel system". _,.
We have provided a notice of Design Error pursuant to Conditions of Contract clause 12.1.6 (k) an.d
require .
the Engineer to take the corrective actions to resolve the matter by issuing a fully detailed design
solution ·· ·· •. ~
that may be implemented by the Contractor. It is surprising that Engineer would seek to exploi~ a failure
: .... r
to design a hybrid Hydronic piping system as an opportunity for further value engineering price
reduction
and to penalize the Contractor when the Employer is responsible for performance.
•ol 1 '1
The Engineer is advised that other tenderers questioned the suitability of the ABS piping solution. We '
refer you to Tender Query RFC-007 issued as part of Tender Bulletin 20 that posed the question: "Please
~, · · ·
confirm whether ABS is suitable for hydronic piping." We note that the Answer to RFC-007 neglected to
respond to the last part of the query (repeated above). •
We remind the Engineer again that the design of the Value Engineering Items is an Employer · ' · •
responsibility. We contend that had the Engineer acted in accordance with the express obligations of the
Conditions of Contract clause 9.7.1, the Employer would be required to issue Drawings to establish such
hybrid pipe design. Having failed to implement the Value Engineering Item design in an appropriate
manner, the Contractor has no option than to revert to the base Contract Works.
Notwithstanding the above, and the further value engineering "opportunity'' sought by the Engineer, we
hereby notify that the Employer is not entitled for any cost savings as a result of the change of the pipe
to ERW steel. We refer the Engineer to Tender Bulletins OS and 09 queries no. 70 and 68 respectively
(reproduced and enclosed in Attachment A).

The Tender Bulletins referenced above show that the Employer agreed that ERW pipe is "as equal" to
the
steel pipe specified in the Specification 232113. As such ERW pipe need not be written into the'
Specification to allow the Contractor to use ERW pipes. Since ERW pipe is allowable under the base
Contract documents, the Employer is not entitled to a value engineering saving for the same.
Find enclose RFVO no. RFV0/0401/0222 to revert the Value Engineering Item to the original
Specification
and return the unjustified Value Engineering Item value to the Contractor.
We look forward to your expedient issuance of a Variation Order for the above.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Value Engineering Item MEP-19 (HVAC Hydronic ABS Piping) Realization of MEP 19 Value
Engineering Item
Dear Sir,
We refer to Engineer's letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-01353 dated 08 April 2014 and respond as
follows.
Suitability of ABS/ERW Hybrid
We maintain that the ABS pipe is an ill-considered material for the Hydronic piping system in
combination
with the steel pipe. Notwithstanding Consultant's language focusing on the "installation, operation and
maintenance in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations", it appears that such language is
designed to shift attention to the Product and workmanship without addressing the actual design of the
pipe system or the likely consequences of using such Product, which in our opinion is not fit for its
intended purpose.
Such remarks are not acceptable and they will not absolve the Consultant from future liability by shifting
the focus to the Product, Product manufacturer warranties and Contractor Warranties. We hereby
reiterate on the basis of 2 professional consultant reports that the Product is not fit for its intended
purpose.
Provision of Suitable Value Engineering Item Design
There is no doubt that both Parties intended to implement Value Engineering Item (VEl) MEP-19.
However, the Employer did not fulfill its obligation by providing a suitable design. We reiterate that
Conditions of Contract Clause 9.7.1:
"For the avoidance of doubt, the design of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value
Engineering Items shall be the responsibility of the Employer."
Therefore, the Engineer's statement that the Employer intends "to retain the system as designed and
specified," incorrectly implies that the Employer delivered a hybrid piping system design. This is not the
case as the Engineer did not issue any Drawings that reflect a redesigned hybrid chilled water piping
system.
Therefore, the first premise of your letter does not hold; the Employer through its Engineer and/or
Consultants should have provided a responsible design including undertaking the liability for the fitness
for purpose. This is a fundamental condition of Contract in order to realize the so called "intentions" of

VEl MEP-19. Providing a Specification that sets out various types of Materials does not deflect the
responsibly for the selection of combinations of Materials and Products or the design of such hybrid
system onto the Contractor. This remains an Employer responsibility.
The Employer is required to develop and deliver a constructible and a fit for purpose design of the VEl;
not
merely to reissue a Specification that includes multiple Product/Material descriptions. Merely adding a
Product type in a Specification does not constitute responsibility for design. In fact the IFC Drawing
design
was not changed at all. As such the VEl design cannot be deemed as having been delivered or realized. In
the light of the above, the Engineer's remark that the Contractor "should not be reverting to the base
contract works" is inconsistent; since the design was never changed. Only a properly detailed IFC
Drawings showing the hybrid system piping details may be deemed a constructible design.
However, we do agree with the Engineer on the principle that the Contractor "is not entitled to make
unilateral decisions in relation to changing ... the work." This is solely the right of the Employer. What we
attempted to express is that we have to revert to the intents of the original Contract because the
Employer never fulfilled the design intents by issuing a VEl design of the hybrid piping system in
accordance with the Employer's responsibility pursuant to Clause 9.7.1 in the first instance.
Achievement of Value Engineering Saving (MEP 19)
In respect of the Tender Bulletin references, it appears the Engineer failed to acknowledge that Tender
Bulletins are incorporated into the Contract and are established at a higher order of precedence than
the
Specifications and Drawings in Clause 9.6.1. The Contract Definitions establish the following:
"Tender Bulletin means the tender bulletins numbered 1-26 inclusive issued to the
Contractor during the tender period but only such relevant parts as are required to clarify
any inconsistency, ambiguity or discrepancy, if any, in or between the Drawings and/or
Specification; "
We refer you to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/001561 dated 2 March 2014 which, provided a
transcription of the Employer's responses to Tender Bulletin No. 5 RFC no. 70 dated 23 May 2011 and
Tender Bulletin No. 9 RFC no. 68 dated 20 June 2011 {both related Specification 232113 pipes), whereby
the Employer confirmed "Per Specification, either ERW or Seamless is acceptable" and "Either [ERW or
Seamless] is acceptable," respectively.
Semantics notwithstanding, the seamless and ERW pipes were accepted by the Employer as equal. The
Tender Bulletins cited above predate any Value Engineering Item initiatives which commenced in early
2012.
Actual Installation on Site
We kindly ask the Engineer to consider the Contract terms that establish the Employer's reliance on the
Contractor pursuant Condition of Contract Clause 8.1.1:
" ... whilst the Employer may have appointed... an Engineer or other Consultants, in
connection with the management of the Works, the Employer is and will at all times be
looking to and shall be reliant upon the Contractor's professional expertise, skill, care and
judgment in relation to all matters concerning the execution and completion of the

Works ... " For the reasons provided here above, we will not install any Works that as an Experienced
Contractor we
deem to be unfit for its intended purpose. The Engineer should consider that the Consultant refrained
from providing revised IFC Drawings for the hybrid design and to uphold the obligations under the
Contract for the establishment of a responsible design, we believe the matter of ABS piping should be
closed on its own merits.
In summary, the commercial and technical principles underlying this Value Engineering Item do not
support a Value Engineering cost reduction as no ABS pipes were implemented in the IFC Drawings and
ERW and Seamless are equally allowable under the base Contract document (i.e. before Value
Engineering Items) as confirmed by the Employer in the Tender Bulletins referenced above. Therefore,
the Employer is not entitled to any Value Engineering Item saving for MEP 19.
In respect of Value Engineering Proposals intended to contribute to the Provisional Value Engineering
Savings target, please be reminded that achieving Provisional Value Engineer Savings is a joint
responsibility of the Parties and may be considered outside the specific issues of VEl MEP-19.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Contractor Claim for Adjustment of Contract Price -Claim No 496 Omission of Value Engineering
Items STRUC-02 and STRUC-09
We refer to RFVO's reference (01) and {02) issued to you for the adjustment of the Contract Price due to
the insufficiency of value engineering undertaken by the Employer to achieve the saving associated with
the following Value Engineering Items (VEl), respectively:
• Replace curved plate girders with trusses (STRUCT-02); and
• Replace the curved plate secondary girders by trusses (STRUCT-09).
It is a factual and undisputed fact that IFC Drawings issued for the implementation of VEl's STRUC-02
and
STRUC-09 did not incorporate the intended scope of the respective VEl documents as set out in
Schedule
24 and Schedule 6 of the Contract. As a result, the Employer materially failed to realize the accepted
savings included in the Contract Price for which the Contractor now seeks to recover payment for the
original Works as set out in the Contract.
• From a VEl Bill of Quantities point of view, the value of relevant Works is expressed by the "omit"
value of the original Works and the "add" value of the VEl Works, the net result being the value of VEl
savings included in the Contract Price. The VEl values were expressly established in this
manner to indicate the 'provisional' nature of these values and allow for their reversal or readjustment
according to Employer responsibility outcomes.
• From a VEl Contract compliance point of view, the Engineer is required to issue IFC Drawings
adopting VEl's. To the extent that an IFC Drawing falls short or omits the implementation of the
intended VEl scope, such shortfall or omission constitutes a Variation. ·
• From a discrepancy I inconsistency between Contract documents point of view, IFC Drawings that
do not conform to the VEl documents require the Engineer to resolve the discrepancies I
inconsistencies between the IFC documents and VEl documents. A resolution which does not

conform to the order of precedence of a VEl document over a Drawing would constitute a
Variation.
In the event the Engineer were to give precedence to IFC Drawings at the expense of a higher priority
VEl
document (being opposite to the Contract document order of precedence), this would be a Variation.
Refer to Conditions of Contract (CoC) clauses 9.6.1 and 9.6.2 that state, inter alia, " ... the resolution of
any
such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in or between the documents referred to in clause
9.6.1
above shall not be construed as a Variation, provided the Engineer shall resolve such inconsistency,
ambiguity and/or discrepancy by deferring to the order of precedence set out above ... "
Therefore, an instruction issued pursuant the Contract which constitutes a Variation should be
confirmed
by a Variation Order in accordance with the right to vary provisions of Contract and recorded in a Time
Cost/Record for the adjustment of the Contract Price and Time for Completion.
Although the Engineer agreed that the matter should be resolved by means of a Variation Order, the
Engineer has unjustifiably prevaricated on the matter resulting in the withholding of payment for Works
already completed. This whilst continuing to indefinitely delay the issuance of a straight forward
Variation
Order; particularly in light of the queries raised in Engineer's letter ref. (02).
The Contractor hereby provides the Engineer with notice of claim pursuant to clause 27.1 for the
adjustment of the Contract Price arising from non-compliant Drawings issued by the Engineer pursuant
to
CoC clause 9.10 for Construction purposes (IFC Drawings).
Find below the relevant facts and circumstances in the context of each Party's rights and obligations
under
the Contract.
1. Relevant Facts and Circumstances of Value Engineering Items STRUCT 02 and 09
During the period immediately following the signature of the Contract in which the Employer was
purportedly engaged with the design Consultant to adopt the agreed VEl's for the purpose of
incorporating the necessary changes and issuing IFC Drawings, the Contractor became concerned that
no
discussions or queries were being raised in connection with the VEl implementation. This prompted the
Contractor to seek visibility into design changes for which AED 1 billion savings had been included in the
Contract. Please refer to query seeking visibility into the process issued to ADAC (acting as the Engineer
at
the time) ref. (21) above. No reply was received to the aforementioned letter.
Specifically the Contractor was concerned for:
• deviations and variance that could result in negative commercial impacts from false savings being
taken without corresponding VEl's being implemented;
• delays in the delivery of such significant amount of change in the short time frame allowed in
Schedule 15 for the completion of VEl design effort; and

• potential abortive Works arising from IFC Drawings issued without the implemented VEl's.
Refer to letter from ADAC ref. (20) above wherein the Employer "Issued for Construction" documents
were issued without any Value Engineering changes. The performance principle that a failure to
implement VEl's has commercial consequences was
acknowledged by the Employer as recorded in AECOM minutes ref. (19) and other minutes for various
other VEl's such as minutes ref. (17) above.
The lack of VEl design implementation progress and the omission of VEl's STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 was
recorded in Contractor letter ref. (18), in which the Engineer was notified that an analysis of the
proposed
VEl tri-chord structural steel truss by the Employer's structural engineering consultant could not be
adopteq.
The aforementioned letter indicated "that the value engineering savings intended will not be achieved"
and reported further that the "remit of the current {ARUP} design exercise excludes the arches and
backstays which limit the full potential of the [VEl} savings". Although we requested "that the Engineer
investigate fully the potential of increasing the structural depth I zone to accommodate the tri-chord
truss
solution and realising the savings anticipated by the VE," we point out that no reply was offered by the
Engineer in response to letter ref. (18) or the requests contained therein.
Further to the notice in Contractor's letter ref. (18), the Engineer issued minutes ref. (16) confirming the
Employer's agreement with the Employer's Consultants to abandon VEl STRUC-02 and STRUC-09.
To avoid the potential for fu rther simulations to the contrary, it is well understood by the Parties as well
as the Engineer that having accepted the VEl's on a fixed price basis, the Employer was obliged to
implement the VEl's by adopting, incorporating and integrating these items within the overall design and
to deliver "Issued for Construction" documents strictly according to the intents and representations set
out in the VEl scope of Works.
The Engineer and the Employer fully recognized and understood that the abandonment of a VEl design
implementation was an Employer responsibility and that such action would jeopardize the Employer's
right to the accepted cost saving considerations. The Contractor offered that to the extent a VEl cannot
be adopted, the un-adapted portion of a VEl (or in the case of VEl STRUC-02/09 alternative designs)
would constitute a Variation. The un-implemented (omitted) VEl would be adjusted by means of a
Variation Order according to the revised (or omitted) VEl scope as represented the final IFC Drawings)
which would be used to re-evaluate the VEl value and adjust Contract Price accordingly.
To clarify and avoid any misunderstandings regarding the Employer's VEl obligations and to avoid the
potential for disputes, the Contractor proposed a contractual mechanism to accommodate for variances
in
the Employer's VEl design delivery and the necessary adjustments to the VEl savings. These principles
were put forth in Contractor letter ref. (13) above, and were implicitly understood and agreed by the
Engineer in confirmation letter ref. (15).
Despite the structural engineer's unequivocal position regarding the viability of VEis STRUC-2 and
STRUC09 and the Employer's agreement as established in references (18) and (16), Engineer's Transmittal ref.

(14) issued to provide a status of the Employer's progress to "CLOSE OUT" VEl's continued to
ambiguously
indicate the status of VEl STRUC-02 and STRUCT-09 as "OPEN" (as opposed to "CLOSED").
The Contractor subsequently notified the Engineer in letter ref. (11) that the Contractor will not proceed
with any further alternative Structural Steel proposals (many which were initiated at the Contractor's
cost
in an attempt to make up for the Employer's short fall in realizing the VEl savings) due to the diminishing
returns and like delays to the progress of the Works.
Considering the short time period (within 120 day from the Commencement Date) in which the
Employer
VEl deliverables were be completed (i.e. 22 December 2012), no information regarding the VEl design
implementation plan, progress or results of the Employer initiatives were provided. The Contractor
received sporadic Bulletins indicating changes to previously issued IFC Drawings. Neither the Engineer
nor the Employer offered any guidance, explanation or rationale regarding the details of the VEl
implementation despite having requested visibility into the process. As a result the Contractor issued
letter ref. (10) to clarify in sufficient detail the level of completion of each
VEl. The Contractor provided a matrix identifying the Drawings and Specifications by cross-referencing
to
VEl no. and requested the Engineer to confirm accuracy and if such documents constituted all the
relevant
documents associated with each VEl. It is important to note that no reply was given to Contractor letter
reference (10) above.
At the time the Engineer had issued Bulletin 6 in transmittal ref. (12) which contained only seven (7)
revised lfC Drawings (out of an anticipated 53) indicating modifications associated with VEl STRUC
02/09.
Although we never received any confirmation to the contrary, no further advice or instruction was
issued
by Engineer to indicate the conclusion of, or finalization of VEl STRUC-02 or STRUC-09.
This state of affairs continued until the Contractor re-opened discussion to close out open VEl actions via
letter ref. (09) above, wherein we provided a Value Engineer Status Log which classified the
implementation of each Contract VEl as "YES", "MAYBE" or "No" according to IFC documents received at
the time. The Contractor classified STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 both as "NO"; meaning not implemented
with the remark "The VEl is being reviewed" to re-evaluate the VEl values.
The Engineer initially responded in letter ref. (06) by acknowledging receipt and confirming the total
value
of the VEl savings of AED 1,011,413,937.04 included in (i.e. forms part of) the Contract Price.
In accordance with the obligations establish in the Contract and the principles in the aforementioned
correspondence we set out to close out VEl STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 by re-evaluating the VEl savings
according to the values actually rea lized in the relevant IFC Structural Drawings. These were submitted
as
Requests for Variation Order (RFVO) No. 500 and 401, ref. (08) and (07), respectively:
• RFV0-500 requested an adjustment in the Contract Price equal to full VEl value (AED

48,620,160.00) for non-implementation of STRUCT-02 ; and
• RFV0-401 requested an adjustment in the Contract Price equal to (AED 49,630,882.99) for partial
implementation of STRUCT-09.
Although the Engineer took an unreasonably period of time to review to evaluate the VEl STRUC-02 and
STRUC-09 RFVOs, the review by the Engineer appeared to reach the conclusion that a Variation Order
would be issued, but for the assessment of the revised va lue of the partial savings with respect to
VEISTRUC09.
The Contractor offered savings based on reductions in structural steel weight by calculating the
difference
between the original Drawings and IFC Drawings issued during the course of the Contract and the
contract
unit rate whereby the RFVO value proposed stood at AED 49,630,907.00.
However, the Engineer's assessment indicated that the VEl is not a Variation and the VEl quantities are
the
Contractor's responsibility. In addition, the Engineer further alleged that using the weight as a measure
for evaluating the Variation Order removes the risk of the accuracy of the BOQ quantities (based on
weight of steel). The Engineer proposed that the value of VEl should be assessed according to a
percentage of steel modified and projecting the ratio to total amount of the intended VEl savings. The
Engineer's method derived a RFVO value of AED 46,675,371.60.
The Contractor did not accept the Engineer's interpretation or method for the reassessment of the
realized VEl value and notified the Engineer accordingly in letter ref. (OS) above, which also provides
details of the above Engineer's assessment.
The Contractor maintained that in order to achieve the savings contemplated in VEl STRUC-09 (and
STRUC-02), the redesign of the structural steel components would have to achieve the net reductions
set
out in VEl definition. The Engineer's assessment that the net savings may be expressed in terms of a
percentage of the component structure by using a notional multiplier of net savings as if it were a
standalone
lump sum item of non-VEl Works (which it is not) is not consistent with the intents under the
Contract or the agreed Engineer principles for the managing VEl changes. The Engineer subsequently
followed through with letter ref. (04) above which provided the Engineer's
status of each VEl in a parallel but separate classification. Wherein, the Engineer classified both STRUC02
and STRUC-09 as "MAYBE" without any further explanation. It is worth noting that the Engineer advised
in letter ref. (04) "where there is a difference between our respective statuses we have included a
commentary ... explaining why we consider a VEl has been achieved."
On 14 February 2016 the Contractor provide Notice of Likely Delay ref. (1) warning the Engineer
regarding
the consequences of the protracted failure to agree a legitimate request for a Variation Orders. in
respect
of RFV0-500 (STRUCT-02) and RFV0-401 (STRUCT-09) : The Engineer was warned that the failure to

refund the Contractor's monies has impacted the Contractor's (primarily the Central Processor
Structural
Steel Subcontractor) cash flow and in turn the Contractor's Structural Steel Progress (the effects of
which
have already resulted in real delays).
On 6 April 2016 Engineer letter ref. (02) sought answers to a list of investigative questions regarding the
Contractor's RFV0-500 (STRUCT-02) and RFV0-401 (STRUCT-09). We noted that most of the Engineer's
questions appear to be deliberately ambiguous and in certain instances disingenuously contrived.
Particularly since the Engineer has agreed to the Variations as a means for resolving VEl discrepancies
and
for having previously issued Variation Orders for the express purpose of re-evaluating and adjusting the
Contract Price for similar VEl issues.
We consider that the Engineer ought to be fully aware of each Party's rights and obligations in respect of
any VEl since the Engineer was appointed on 16 August 2012; presumably steeped in the history of the
MTB Contract, and having been party to confirming fundamental principles regarding the administration
of VEl variations, which the Engineer confirmed to the Contractor in writing on 21 November 2012 in ref.
(13) as follows:
"We refer to your Jetter ref MTB/TCA/AECOM/U000093 dated 4 November 2012 in respect of
the implementation of Value Engineering items.
We note your concern that the final "Issued for Construction" drawings may differ from the
agreed Value Engineering items and we confirm that should these differences be direct
omissions or major alterations then a Variation Order will be considered."
Notwithstanding, the Engineer's potential ignorance of the relevant facts and circumstances the
Contractor acting in good faith offered answers in letter ref. (01) (erroneously dated 20 April 2014,
should
be 2016), with reservation that such were provided without prejudice to the Contractor's rights and
entitlement under the Contract and at Law.
The section below sets out the terms and condition of the Contract which entitle the Contractor to an
adjustment of the Contract Price as requested in RFV0-500 and RFV0-401 as a result of the Employer's
omission of Value Engineering Items STRUC-02 and STRUCT-09, respectively.
2. Basis for Entitlement to a Variation
Further to Contractor letters ref. (01) and (03) we wish to add the following:
For clarity and technical correctness, "Accepted Value Engineering item" is not a defined Contract term.
Therefore, notwithstanding several occurrences of such terms as 'Accepted Value Engineering item' or
'Accepted Value Engineering Items', all such instances mean "Value Engineering Items" as defined in the
Contract:
"Value Engineering Items means the items so described and set out in Schedule 24 (Provisional
Value Engineering Items and Value Engineering Items), which shall be holistically explanatory
along with Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities);" (emphasis added). The word "accepted" is a redundant
descriptor used to differentiate from the Provisional Value
Engineering Items that were also cited in Schedule 24 and Schedule 6, but were not included or forming
part of Contract Price.

It is worth emphasising that all the value engineering items in schedule 24, whether those included in
the
Contract Price or not, were all selected by the Employer from a larger group of pre-contract value
engineering initiatives. The Employer was the sole party responsible for selecting and accepting
~ontractor proposals anq for ultimately including those selected ones in ~he Contract Price.
The important distinctions between the "accepted" Value Engineering Items (or VEl 's) and any other
part
of the Works is that the VEis are set out in both of Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 to mutually and
harmoniously establish the intended scope of the Works. It should be apparent that the VEl's were
undeveloped designs by virtue of not being incorporated into the Drawings and Specification.
The definition cited above is intended to rightfully protect the rights of both Parties due to the nature of
Works which at the time of execution of the Contract had not yet been developed and incorporated in
to
the Drawings and Specification. It was set forth by the Employer in order to conclude the Contract award
in advance of undertaking the necessary Drawings and Specification changes to give effect to the
precontract
VEl proposals.
In this manner the Employer accepted the Contractor proposal and committed to implement the VEl's
post Contract. As such the fulfilment of VEl implementation obligation was and remains solely at the
Employer's risk. The Employer's obligations to adopt and implement the VEl's are set out in CoC clause
9.7.1 (as per added emphasis below):
"9.7.1 The Contractor shall be deemed to have scrutinised, prior to the Effective Date, the
Specification Drawings and all of other relevant parts of the Contract and shall be
responsible for identifying and carrying out any further design necessary to allow the
proper execution and completion of the Works. For the avoidance of doubt, the design
of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items shall be the
responsibility of the Employer." (emphasis added)
The time table of the Employer's obligation to develop the design and details of such Value Engineering
Item and to issue corresponding "Issued for Construction" Drawings and/or Specifications is set out in
CoC
clause 9.10.1 and 9.10.2
"9.10.1 The Specification and Drawing Release Schedule1 (including any Value Engineering
Items) sets out the dates that the Engineer shall release drawings and/or
specifications for use by the Contractor for construction purposes." (emphasis added)
"9.10.2 The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the Time for Completion and the
Contract Price are inclusive of all Value Engineering Items. Provided the obligations
under clause 9.10.1 are fulfilled on or before the dates set out in the Specification and
Drawing Release Schedule (but subject to compliance by the Contractor with clause
9.10.3 below) the Contractor shall not be entitled to any extension of the Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or an adjustment to the Contract Price in
relation to Value Engineering Items. For the avoidance of doubt Value Engineering
Items shall not be construed as Variations." (emphasis added)

It is worth pointing out that members of the Engineer's team have incorrectly implied that the last
sentence above is grounds for denying the Contractor a Variation. It should be equally clear now, as it
was
at the time the Contract that, "Value Engineering Items" in CoC clause 9.10.3 is in reference to those set
out in CoC 9.10.1, which the Engineer was purportedly required to issue as IFC's i.e. "for construction
purposes".
To resolve the deliberate and obvious conflicts, discrepancies and inconsistencies between the VEl's on
one hand, and the original Contract Drawings and Specification, on the other, and to ensure the
overriding
intents of the VEl scope of Works (as should be delivered by the Engineer pursuant to 9.10.1}, over
those
represented in the original Contract Drawings and Specification, the Parties agreed the Contract
documents order of precedence set out in CoC clause 9.6.1 as follows:
"9.6.1 The documents forming the Contract are to be taken as mutually explanatory of one
another. For the purposes of interpretation, in the event of any inconsistency,
ambiguity or discrepancy between any two (2) or more documents, the documents
shall take precedence in the following order:
(a) Schedule 1 (Contract Particulars);
(b) these Conditions of Contract;
(c) Schedule 11 (Payment Terms);
(d) Value Engineering Items;
(e) Supplemental Clarifications;
(f) Tender Bulletins;
(g) Schedule 12 {Specification);
(h) Schedule 17 (Drawings);
(i) Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities) (excluding the quantities which are for information
only); and
(j) the other Schedules and any other documents forming part of the Contract."
(emphasis added}
"9.6.2 The Contractor shall immediately notify the Engineer in writing if it finds any
inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in any of the documents referred to in
clause 9.6.1 or between any of the documents referred to in clause 9.6.1 and the
Engineer shall issue any clarification and/or instruction necessary to resolve such
inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy. The Contractor shall not be entitled to
any extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or an
adjustment to the Contract Price as a consequence of such clarification or instruction.
For the avoidance of doubt, the resolution of any such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or
discrepancy in or between the documents referred to in clause 9.6.1 above shall not be
construed as a Variation, provided the Engineer shall resolve such inconsistency,
ambiguity and/or discrepancy by deferring to the order of precedence set out above
unless such interpretation would result in an unreasonable or manifestly absurd result."
(emphasis added}

The Contract documents order of precedence intended to ensure the supremacy of VEl scope Works and
the corresponding consideration for the same, by setting out the Value Engineering Items above all of
other documents including the Specification (Schedule 12} and the Drawings (Schedule 17).
Whereas, the Contract definition of Value Engineering Items was meticulously and deliberately set out
to
mutually and harmoniously define the VEl by the VEl schematic documents (in Schedule 24) as well as
the
VEl and quantities in VEl BOQ documents (Schedule 6}.
By referring to CoC clause 9.6.1 (d), the Engineer should be fully aware that no Schedule number is
associated with "Value Engineering Items" on line (d) (as compared to the other Contract documents
listed therein}, which is also relevant to the Engineer's obligations under CoC clause 9.10 for Drawings
and
Instructions. These provisions of the Contract are fundamental terms and conditions of the Contract
For the avoidance of any doubts, the parts of the Provisional Value Engineering Items and Value
Engineering Items (Schedule 24} document, together with the parts of the Bill of Quantities (Schedule 6)
that set out VEl Works are elevated to level 'd' in CoC clause 9.6.1, notwithstanding that the Schedule 6
and Schedule 24 are set at lower levels of precedence 'h' and 'i', respectively.
De·spite the unstudied conceptual nature of the Structural Steel VEl, STRUC-02 and 09 set out finite
values
based on the Contract defined units of measure for the savings element, i.e. tons of structural steel.
Where in, both Parties understood and agreed that in order to realize the va lue of such VEl concepts
the
Employer is required to develop such concepts in order to realize (or equally meaningful "preserve") the
VEl values included in the Contract Price.
By setting about to execute the Contract on a fixed price basis before implementing the VE l design, the
Employer knowingly accepted the responsibility for the VEl outcomes and the risks associated with
achieving the VEl savings. The Engineer and the Employer always understood their responsibility to
deliver
IFC Drawings for which the Employer accepted the associated design liabilities.
As such the Employer shall always remain responsible for the outcome of VEl design, including any
variances from the quantum of savings. Notwithstanding any reversals to the contrary, the Engineer
acknowledged and confirmed that with VEl quantum variances constituted Variations. The Engineer is
fully aware that such variances are driven by the reliability of the original concepts and efficacy and/or
viability ofthe Employer's VEl design.
For clarity regarding what may be deemed a Drawing under the Contract, CoC clause 1.1 provides the
following:
"Drawings means the drawings of the Works set out in Schedule 17 (Drawings), and any
additional and modified drawings issued by (or on behalf of) the Employer in accordance with
the Contract;"
Moreover, CoC Clause 21.2 expressly allows for the Adjustment of the Contract Prices as follows:
"21 .2.1 The Contract Price shall only be adjusted in the specific circumstances and by the
specific amounts expressly provided for in:

(a) clause 9.10 (Drawings or Instructions);
(b) ....
If the Contractor incurs any Cost as a result of any of the matters set out above the
Contractor shalf give notice to the Engineer and shall be entitled subject to clause 27.1
{Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which shall be added to the Contract
Price.
After receiving the notice set out above the Engineer shall proceed in accordance with
clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or determine the matters contained in such
notice.
Where any entitlement under this provision originates from any failure by the
Employer and that failure was caused by any error or delay by the Contractor,
including an error in or delay in the submission of any of the Contractor's Documents,
the Contractor shall not be entitled to any cost whatsoever." (emphasis added)
Kindly be advised that the provisions of CoC 21.2.1 expressly provide for the Contractor's entitlement to
Contract Price adjustment due to circumstances arising from the performance of the Employer
obligations under CoC clause 9.10 in accordance with the order of precedence set out in CoC clause
9.6.1. The Engineer is notified that the provisions of CoC Clause 27.1.5 (c) are deemed to have been fully
complied with by referring to the Contractor's final particulars established in Contractor's RFV0-401 ref.
(07) dated 30 April 2015 and RFV0-500 dated 11 April 2015 for the adjustment to the Contract Price.
Having taken more than 411 days to review, assess, consider and interrogate the Contractor's request
for
Variation Orders according to the agreed principles under the Contract, the Contractor considers that
information and requirements of CoC clause 27.1.5 and 27.1.6 have been satisfied.
This notice of claim is issued by the Contractor for the purpose of satisfying CoC 21.2.1 and 27.1 in order
to invoke the Contractor's right to:
a) The release of payment for parts of VEl Works where Value Engineering has not been achieved,
pursuant the Employer's obligations to under CoC 27.1.7 and 21.2.1, which respectively provide:
and
"Each interim payment shall include amounts for any claims that have been reasonably
substantiated as due under the relevant provision of the Contract;" (CoC 27.1.7) and
"If the Contractor incurs any Cost as a result of any of the matters set out above [(a) clause
9.10 (Drawings or Instructions)] the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer and shall be
entitled subject to clause 27.1 {Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which shall be
added to the Contract Price." (CoC 21.2.1),
b) An Engineer's determination for the adjustment to be made to the Contract Price as required
pursuant to 27.1.8 (b) and 21.2.1, which respectively provide:
"The Engineer shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or
determine: the additional payment and adjustment to the Contract Price (if any) to which
the Contractor is entitled under the Contract." (CoC 27.1.8 (b)), and
"After receiving the notice set out above the Engineer shall proceed in accordance with
clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or determine the matters contained in such notice.
(CoC 21.2.1)

We respectfully request the Engineer to consider the facts and circumstances as well as the rights and
obligations of the Parties under the Contract for the purpose of making a fair determination strictly in
accordance with CoC clause 11.4.
For avoidance of doubt this claim is related to the reversal of Value Engineering Savings only as set out
in
Requests for Variation Orders nos. 500 and 401 ref. (07) and (08) due to the non-implementation of the
VEl Works and resultant execution of the original Works. It does not include any consideration for delays
nor any Extension of Time, prolongation costs or other damages arising from the execution of the
original
Works and I or non-payment of the completed Works; as notified in letter ref. (03), the effects of which
are ongoing and for which we expressly reserve our rights.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Stone Visit Report (STN-13-0iympia Cream) and Design Intent Control Samples
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge the receipt of the above Engineer's Inspection Report ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-Q401-TML01190 dated on 11 January 2015. However we object the content of the report for DEEMAH STN-13
Olympia Cream part and request for clarification as follows;
}> Stone Flooring Spec 096340 issued on July 2012, refers to a Stone Type (STN-08) as Olympia
Cream with a fabricator named of Campolonghi ltalia Sri.
}> Stone Facing Spec 097500 issued on July 2012, refers to a Stone Type (STN-13) as Olympia Cream
with a fabricator named of Campolonghi ltalia Sri.
We have submitted Olympia Cream (STN-08} stone under material submittal ref.
MS/0401/C/0145 dated on 08 May 2013 and received a Code 1 status for the mentioned stone
from Campolonghi ltalia Sri .
We also provided a stone mock up in accordance to SDS ref. SDS/A/0142 with the approved stone
ordered from Campolonghi ltalia Sri.
We requested an inspection for the stone flooring mock up installed with STN-08 Olympia Cream
at the tent adjacent to the Mock up Building by letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/001621 dated 11
March 2014.
We therefore understand that the mat erial "Olympia Cream" either used in Stone Flooring or Stone
Facing with different tags in MTB Project, refers to the same material coming from the same quarry
location which is approved previously by the Engineer with Code 1 MS/0401/C/0145 received on 27 May
2013. With reference to El-109 for FOH Toilet Mock up, as a requirement of Spec 097500, we have
submitted
same materiai"Oiympia Cream" with a different tag STN-13. Based on the STN-08 reference, we have
also
requested a confirmation or further information if any for Sample for Stone (Olympia Cream) under a
letter MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/002003 dated on OS June 2014.
The Engineer's letter ref. MTC/CMA/TCA/0401/TML/00888 and MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/001985,
(KPF/PD/2132/LTR/00297) clearly mentioned that'' ... For STN-13 Olympia Cream, please note that vein

of the submitted sample is less desirable than one presented to us during earlier design review, Per Spec
097500 ... " and also Engineer's letter MTC/CMA/TCA/0401/TML/00922 dated on 25 June 2014 stated
that
" ... Veins and Colours of Stone Shall be Similar to the approved samples ... 11
Based on the comments of the Engineer, please note that by letter reference
MTB/TCA/ AECOM/l/002070, " ... STN-13 Olympia Cream: The aforementioned material is not uniform in
nature, usually the veins are scattered over a big block& are not equally parted. Please find attached
photo (Ref.0001} from Campolonghi ... 11
Please be advised that KPF/ADAC/JV representatives were invited for a stone inspection for STN-13
Olympia Cream at Khaters Factory in Italy to progress with official submissions to the Engineer. On the
date of the inspection 18 November 2014 we note that the KPF Design Team brought along 3 nos. of
new
stone samples 300x300 for "Olympia Cream" with a tag from Campolonghi ltalia Sri. introduced as
control Samples for which the visual appearance is totally different than the previously approved Code 1
Olympia Cream material from the same fabricator.
The inspection was followed up with the exhibition of six slabs which were intended as a true reflection
the nature of this material. KPF/ADAC team marked the acceptable/unacceptable portions of the slabs
and followed with a discussion with the Vendor to confirm with the quarry owner on the feasibility of a
vein free store.
STN-13 Olympia Cream was again submitted under MS/0401/A/0405 on 27 October 2014 and received
Code 3 on 07 December 2014.
The latest STN-13 Olympia Cream submission is made under MS/0401/A/0460 on 29 December 2014
also
including a certificate from a quarry of origin in Tunisia to satisfy the Engineers previous comments, still
pending with the Engineer with the discussions of a vein free stones.
In view of the above, we would like to state our understanding for the expectations for STN-13 Olympia
Cream.
Objections;
)> Firstly, we object to the parts of the report where KPF compares the STN-13 Olympia Cream slabs
in Khater Factory with the new "Olympia Cream" sample introduced on 18 November 2014 at the
factory inspection. We request a revised report from the Engineer which removes the comparison
of slabs visual characteristics with these different samples.
)> Secondly, we object to the report where Olympia Cream vein characteristics are eliminated. This is
the inherit characteristic of the material which should be recognized and accepted by the
Engineer. As previously commented, the designer intended to see similar veins as the approved
sample. Third, we object to the MS/0401/A/0405 received on 07 December 2014 detailed comments
Item 1 for receiving Code 3 " ... The material sample of Olympia Cream does not match the
specified design intent as represented by KPF's Control sample of Olympia Cream {Provided by
Campolonghi). The visual characteristics and aesthetic appearance of the Deemah submittal are
different from Olympia Cream specified by KPF. See Fig. 1 for stone comparison. Contractor to
resubmit to match KPF's Control sample ... " As seen clearly from the previous correspondences,
MS/0401/A/0405; The Engineer cannot give Code 3 for Item 1 due to it is not matching with the

sample firstly seen on 18th November 2014 in Italy.
Conclusion;
}> If the design intent of the Engineer is to proceed with the newly introduced Stone Facing STN-13 ,
this is totally a different material which needs to be re-evaluated.
}> If the design intent of the Engineer is to proceed with the already inspected slabs at Khaters
factory in Italy, it is confirmed by the quarry that the inspected slabs are indicative of this vein
characteristic. We request the Engineer to review Olympia Cream slab inspection comments and
consider their selection criteria by recognizing the nature of this material and allow us to proceed
accordingly.
In light of the above, The Engineer is requested to respond our concerns and clarifying the design intent.
The Engineer has been supportive in this regards for which we thank their efforts. However the formal
communication and record is required to be corrected and we require a clear direction to resolve the
ambiguities.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Schematic design for Suspended Glass Structure
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter LTR-02038 and advise that the Suspended Glass Structure is a Defined Provisional
Sum item (B ill 4/E).
The Contract requires the Engineer to issue his instructions for this Defined Provisional Sum item by no
later than the time " ... contemplated by the information release dates set out in the Bill of Quantities ...
"being
NTC + 365 days, approx .. 16 August 2013.
Such instructions should be given under an Engineer's Instruction, or Variation Order, and include the
approved supply and install tender for the selected subcontractor, the necessary designed Drawings,
Specifications, agreed commercial terms and whatsoever required to enable us to place a subcontract
with the selected tenderer.
The Contract does not define this DPS item as a Contractor supplied item or as Contractor designed
item. The Contract Documents include a 'Design Report Vol 3 of 4, Book 19 of 24- Light and
WaterConcept
Design and Proposal' as prepared by Carpenter I Lowings Architecture & Design {CLAD), in
which CLAD clearly state that the design is theirs and that Arup have assessed it for impact on
surrounding structures and seismic conditions. There is no Specification for this DPS item in the Contract
Documents.
Accordingly, we are unable to accept the supply of or any design liability for this item and accordingly
we shall not be pursuing the requests included in your referenced letter.
We respectfully request the Engineer to follow the agreed procedures for DPS Items and issue a full
package as summarized above that enables us to place a subcontract with the selected tenderer.
In the meantime, we will assist you where possible with the Employer's selected tenderers in workshops
on matters related to buildability, access, programme, etc., but not in matters of design.
In conclusion we will adhere to the Engineer's Instruction in due course to enter in to 'supply and install'
subcontract with the Employer's selected tenderer on the basis stated above.

Subject: Inconsistent Engineer's Review Comments Face Recognition (FR) System Low Level Design
Submittal
Dear Sir,
With reference to Engineer's action code 3 'Revise and Resubmit' in respect of 'Low Level Design
Document {LLD) - Face Recognition System (FR)', please be advise that comments forming the basis of
this action are not justified and contrary to the design and configuration of the FR System as set out in
Engineer's Instruction 294 ref. {2) above.
Moreover, the Engineer ought to be aware that the submitted LLD for FR System is consistent with the
design deviations expressly agreed with the Employer and recorded in Engineer's instruction ref. (2)
above.
A copy of the Employer approved design deviations as instructed in El-294 inclusive of Section 6 of
ATLAS Letter AST/TCAJV/TV/TD/0031 dated 4 February 2015 regarding 'Response to Technical
Compliance' is attached for your reference. With specific reference to Specification Sec. 272050
paragraph 2.11.B 'Computer and Server Equipment' the Employer agreed the following deviations:
"For point related to specific hardware redundancy and location inside MCR's; onlv LPR & FR supplied
subsystem will be rock mounted servers in SCR's as per Manufacturer's solution and system architecture
requirements recommendations for system performance and accuracy aspects." (Added emphasis).
Moreover this concept of FR severs in the SCR has already been approved in the FR NICD and SCR
Cabinet Layout Shop drawings. However, contrary to the above provisions the Engineer's comments in
the FR LLD included without
limitation the following:
"Page 9 of 52. Jpsotek VIS108FR-R-POE also known as the "Face Recognition Data Processing Units (FR
DPU)", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software in the SCR." and "lpsotek VI SFRDB-RC servers,
also known as the "FR Database {FRO 8} servers", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software and
lpsotek V/Suite VA software in the SCR."
"Contractor to move all servers to MCR or Data Center, reflect this in the document and resubmit.
Contractor to add load distribution on MCR and Data Center for the servers. Contractor to ensure to
update related documents if this impact approved SCR/MCR shop drawings." (Added emphasis)
These comments will effectively change the agreed FR system design in respect of the placement and
connectivity of the FR OPUs & FR DB Servers. As a result Atlas has stopped all further progress of these
Works until the above contemplated changes are addressed in a reasonable and rational manner. For
clarity and avoidance of doubt, such changes would result in below mentioned abortive works and
various impacts as follows:
a) Re-Design of MCR/DC Internal cabling Infrastructure including related MEP and SCN works to
support the equipment in the new location
b) Update & Re-submit all the approved Shop Drawings and NICD Document.
c) Procure; Install & Commission additional support infrastructure equipment
d) The following activities as per Program rev 10.2 will be delayed( not limited to. ):
Therefore, the Engineer is requested to urgently re-consider its comments forthwith and/or to further
elaborate upon the basis of the requested changes. Moreover, the above referenced Engineer actions

constitute a Variation which are not in the form of, or have been previously instructed in writing. To the
extent the above changes are required, you are requested pursuant to clause 20.1.4 (b) please issue
revised Drawings and/or Specification and an Engineer's Variation Order pursuant to clause 11.3.3 and
20.1.1 (a), respectively.
We reserve our rights to all additional costs and delays caused by the Engineer's disruptive comments.
Subject: Approval of Fire Life Safety Design and House of Expertise Responsibilities
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters reference (11) and (12) above, and the copy of ADAC letter reference (10)
enclosed as part of your letter (12).
Sequence of Submittal Approvals
In respect of your query regarding the sequence of Submittal reviews and approval, kindly review and
return our submittals in the order in which the Submittals are submitted for approval. · We will alert
you in the event we require a different prioritization of the Submittals.
Clause 12.1.6 (k)
In respect of your comments regarding Clause 12.1.6 (k), be advised that failing to obtain an
Employer's Permit is a design error beyond the scope a Design Error capable of being identified by
Experience Contractor practices. All changes required to rectify such design errors are beyond the
capabilities of an Experienced Contractor. You are well aware that such capabilities are within the
reach of highly specialized fire and life safety consultancies. Please refer again to our self-explanatory
letter reference (8) above.
We note that in respect of giving notices, the matter of compliance with Applicable Law was raised
during tendering whereby ADAC confirmed to the bidders via Tender Bulletin 18, RFC-3319 to "Price in
accordance with the Employer's design. Any changes due to design code requirements will be
coordinated and discussed with the successful Tenderer." This should put to rest any doubts regarding
the reservation of our rights considering the absurd
allegations that 3 rd party HOE is a Contractor responsibility considering that the ADCD Permit for the
Works has yet to be approved and your unjustified comments regarding our obligations to scrutinize
numerous and unjustified reissuances of Fire Strategy Reports. The Tender Bulletins are expressly
incorporated into the Contract to clarify and resolve discrepancies
in the scope of the MTB Works. This was agreed between the TCA JV and ADAC to set limits to on the
physical scope Works and to establish accountability for further changes thereto.
You are well aware that the strategy report is the basis of the Employer's design and it has no use to
us until it is developed into designs and constructible IFC documents capable of being implemented
for the execution of the Works (i.e. steps 1 to 3 in the ADCD six-step process).
We note you have not yet confirmed if the strategy report revisions 11 will be the last. Such
confirmation would be a true indicator of ADCD's approval of the design and would signal our ability
to proceed with the IFC documents without risk of unjustified retributions and allegations of failure to
comply with Applicable Laws.
Responsibility for HOE
We disagree with your conclusion regarding the responsibility for engaging the third party HOE
Consultant as specified in the ADAC/ADCD agreed six-step process. Your statement referring to (10)

as confirming agreement by us to such process and MOU is not true.
The aforementioned ADAC letter confirms ADAC's compliance with ADAC's own agreement towards
ADCD and acknowledges ADAC's responsibility for doing so. It confirms and vindicates our numerous
objections that we are not party to the six-step process agreement and numerous notices that the
processes described in the ADAC/ADCD agreement relate to ADAC responsibility approval processes.
ADAC is so lely responsible for fulfilling the agreements is makes with any Governmental Authority,
including in this instance ADCD.
Therefore, ADAC's appointment of AON as a 3 rd Party HOE Consultant to comply with the terms of its
own agreement with ADCD in order to satisfy its own obligations for ADCD Permit for the Works in
compliance with fire and life safety codes is ADAC's sole responsibility including the consequences
arising there from. Please be advised that we are appointing our own independent consultant to ensure
that the Works
conforms to ADCD authorized documents and approvals.
We refuse any responsibility or accountability for the Third Party retained by ADAC and will respond to
ADAC's claim for the 3rd party HOE costs in due course.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Amendment Agreement No.3 – For On Account Advance Payment
Dear Sir,
Kindly find enclosed Amendment Agreement No.3 to the Subcontract between us, for releasing Monthly
Advance Payments to improve your cash flow, as requested by you.
In order to comply with the procedure for receiving the additional Monthly Advance Payment, you are
requested to confirm the agreement to the exact wording of the attached Amendment Agreement No.3
(with attachments) within two (2) days of receipt of this letter – sign and stamp every page and return
with duplicate.
Please note that, this on account additional incentive payment does not entitle you to any additional
cost or adjustment to the Subcontract Price and/or adjustments to any Time for Completion.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Shop Drawings Submitted with References not Recognized by the Engineer
Dear Sir,
We refer to your above transmittals and note that, rev1s1on clouds must be noted with references
recognized by the Engineer which are Els, Bulletins, BPs etc. Subcontractor shall not add Contractors
references on the shop drawings revision cloud which in certain particular cases referred above.
In any specific case if the Subcontractor is not sure of the references to be added, you are advised to
contact with TCAJV Engineering Department prior to proceeding.

As of today all shop drawings that are submitted without references recognized by the Engineer are not
rejected by TCAJV to facilitate the progress of works at site. That said should these drawings get rejected
by the Engineer due to reasons mentioned above it shall not be TCAJV's responsibility to facilitate
recoding of these drawings. The Subcontractor shall resubmit those drawings with proper revision cloud
references and seak Engineers approval.
This is for your information and further action,
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Warranties
Dear Sir,
As you are aware, the Specifications forming part of the Subcontract require you to issue Warranties for
the benefit of the Employer and ourselves on express terms and for a specified period of time in respect
of the materials, equipment and plant supplied, installed or supplied and installed by you for the
Permanent Subcontract Works under your Subcontract.
To be specific, we request that you submit the Warranties within seven (7) days from receipt of this
letter. Further, to ensure the Warranties we submit to the Employer are in full compliance with the Main
Contract, we have developed standard warranty forms that comply with the Main Contract. These have
been submitted to and agreed with the Engineer and ADAC.
We hereby attach the link for the final form of warranties to be granted by Sub-contractors, Installers,
Suppliers and Manufacturers for each product I equipment:
https://warrantycertificate.tcajv.ae/Warranty-Certificate.html
1. The submitted Warranties should be fully compliant and consistent with the requirements of the
Sub Contract.
2. The submitted Warranties are required to comply with the note (1 to 5) contained at the end of the
enclosed warranty.
3. You are not permitted to make any amendments to the Warranty forms or to add any additional
comments on the signatory pages.
4. You are not permitted to add any standard warranty terms of your company.
5. You are to return the fully completed and executed Warranty to us (4 Original Signed Certificates
from each form), via the attached transmittal document.
6. Failure to sign the Warranty may result in rejection of materials, plant or equipment that have been
accepted thus far as approved Material Approval Request since such approval was conditional on a
Warranty being provided in a format that meets the conditions of the Main Contract to the Engineer's
satisfaction.
Subject: Notice of Delay 3 - Structural Calculations for Balustrades (Type BAL-01 & BAL-02)
Dear Sir,
Further to our letters referenced thru {4) to {6), we continue to record your persistent delays in
resubmission of Structural Calculations, Fabrication and Installation of the aforesaid works.

We further record that, as of to date, the Structural Calculations remained with Code 3 status thus a
period of exceeding two {2) years as indicated in the below table.
This adversely affects the progress of procurement, fabrication and installation of site works as
evidenced by lack of corrective action from your side in revising and resubmitting the structural
calculations for approval.
Additionally, we also record that your progress at site is very slow due to the continuous presence of
inadequate manpower, which in turn delay overall completion of these works. Consequently, you are
hereby held responsible for all the delays caused to date by your continuous failure to rectify and submit
compliant structural calculations in order to proceed with the site works.
You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract which include,
Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 provides that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or Other Subcontractors.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor Is
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
You are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3 and 16.4.1 to submit a detailed and
comprehensive report that includes increasing resources, on how the above delay events will be
mitigated, within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Reply - Notice of Delay 3- Structural Calculations for Balustrades (Type BAL-01 &
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (8) as well as the receipt of Rev.07 of the
calculation on 17 October 2017 as stated in your reply letter. Please note that the Contractor took
proactive action in submitting the calculation to the Engineer for approval immediately, however,
unfortunately it received approval status of Code-3 for the eighth time to date.
It is noted that most of the points you raised as concerns that affected your progress is entirely your
scope of works and the subcontractor should have solved those issues in a timely manner to allow for
the site works to progress as per project schedule requirement.
Kindly find below the Contractor's response to your concerns;
• Item 1: As the Balustrade is a performance item; the base plate on IFC is just indicative thereby design
and coordination is under LMI's scope. Therefore, the base plate design is also under your scope
whether it is embedded or post fixed hence this has no impact on your progress.
• Item 2: This is entirely a coordination issue hence there should be coordinated with concrete stairs and
no excuse is acceptable.
• Item 3: The coordination with other trades is also LMI's responsibility under your scope and this has
not impacted on the actual delays and no excuse is acceptable.

• Item 4: As the balustrade is a performance item; the dimensions provided in IFC are indicative and it
should be designed by the Subcontractor to achieve the specification structural performance
requirements hence it is LMI's scope and no excuse is acceptable.
Item 5: This material specification is provided to you since tender stage, and you should have considered
this at the time of tendering hence no excuse is acceptable.
• Item 6: Unfortunately, The structural calculation provided was not meeting the desired engineering
standards with many mistakes in every revision which resulted in code-3 approval status to date.
• Item 7: This is a general statement which is not evidenced thereby we failed to see any comment that
may have led to any work delay or stoppage.
Additionally, apart from the technical issues that fall under normal coordination and design practice for
such performance scope of work, the main delays are related to the shortage of the materials,
fabrication, delivery and installation including the persistent shortage of manpower to cope with site
progress requirements all over the project areas.
Please be advised that these delays are disrupting the execution of other subcontractors' works and
trades which may result in other subcontractors raising claims against Leader Metal Industries.
Therefore, you again are instructed to resolve all critical issues (procurement and delivery of all required
materials that include provision of adequate skilled manpower} in order to mitigate and recover your
delays.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
You are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3 and 16.4.1 to submit a detailed and
comprehensive report that includes increasing resources, on how the above delay events will be
mitigated, within seven (7} days of the receipt of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Delay -Shop Drawing Submission
Dear Sir,
We write to express our concern regarding your delays in submission of Code 3 Shop Drawings (that
require revision) and Rev 0 shop drawing as per the forecast date.
We note that you failed to adhere to the planned submission date which is evident from the enclosed
shop drawing list.
You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 which
states that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due expedition and without delay,
and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV or Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to take immediate steps to mitigate your
aforementioned delays to avoid any further delays to the Works.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by ourselves and/or Other
Subcontractors arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from you in
accordance with the Subcontract.

This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Target As-Built Drawing Schedule Rev.02.1 dated 22 November 2017-Reminder
Dear Sir,
Please be reminded that your response to our letter ref. no. MTB-TCA-LEADERMETAL-L-000367 dated
OS Dec. 2017 is overdue.
We note with concern that failure to receive your response could adversely affect the project close-out
and completion target dates.
You are kindly requested to take appropriate action to review the subject matter and respond with your
feedback and I or confirmation at the soonest convenience.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Reply- Variation for Design Calculations
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (6} above regarding the aforementioned subject,
However, we reiterate on our position stated in our previous letter under reference (5) that, it is your
contractual obligation to provide and get approval of all required Structural Calculations for items under
your package that conforms and meet all requirements of the Project specifications under the
Subcontract.
Although we are agree with your statement that there is no requirement for LMI to provide the
Professional Indemnity insurance for this scope of works, however it is your misuse and
misinterpretation of the word "Design Calculations" instead of mentioning "Structural Calculations" in
this context. ·
Therefore we reject your notification for a variation cost of structural calculations since it is your
contractual obligation to do so.
Moreover, please be advised to refrain from raising such unfounded notification in future.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Re: RFVOs Status

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (1) above, requesting us to provide the status of the RFVO’s
listed in your letter and we hereby respond as follows.
We are taking this opportunity to notify you regarding your satisfactory progress of works related to the
said RFVO’s. Please be informed that certification of such progress is subject to an official issuance of
the Variation Orders, which is pending with the Engineer.

To conclude, we hereby inform you that once Variation Orders are issued by the Engineer respectively,
we will inform you accordingly.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Likely Delay No.2713 Variation Order Confirmation for Additional Steel frame to
support Aluminum Parapet and SS Handrail at the North & South Opaque Bridges

Dear Sir,
With reference to the email correspondence between TCAJV, ARUP, KPF, & ADAC (Ref.2 above) and
Engineer's response to RFI/0401/13533 (Ref.l above), please be advised that the comments,
clarifications
and/or instruction contained therein constitute a Variation.
The Engineer has proposed in the email correspondence and in the RFI response to design, fabricate,
and
install an additional steel frame to support Aluminum Parapet & SS handrail at the edge of north &
south
opaque bridges to compensate the shortage of the bridge extent to support the parapet and the SS
handrail as per detail-1 in IFC drawing no. MTC-A-34-TB-L_._-_._-00.525-02. This Shortage happened due
to a discrepancy between Architectural iFC & Structural iFC.
The Contractor deems the Engineers response to the RFI/0401/13533 constitutes changes and a
variation
is required to carry out the works and overcome deficiencies in the Employer's design.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4(b), the contractor is of the view that the
Engineer
has issued comments, clarification and I or instruction constituting a Variation which are not in the form
of or have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
We are unable to undertake changes pursuant to informally revised drawings or sketches constituting a
Variation without a formal Variation Order or a confirmation of same.
Please issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification as a Variation by means
of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising as a result of abortive
works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or the confirmations mandated by
Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4 and 20.3.1.
Failing to undertake the Engineer's duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the
Works
and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and an increase to the
Contract Price. Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to CoC 9.10.3 that we intend to claim for an
extension of the

Time for Completion and the additional Cost implications.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1013 - Engineer's Failure to Instruct IFC Drawings for the
Dear Sir
Common Use Self Service Kiosk Cameras and Data Points
On 25 September 2017, the Contractor issued a Variation Order Request, under the cover of letter ref:
MTBITCAIAECOMILI11561, dated 24 September 2017. In reference to the Employer's Design
Consultant's
response to RFI/0401115005 on 13 September 2017, the Contractor averred that the "the information,
comments, clarifications and/or instruction contained therein constitute a Variation". Although the
response to RFI/0401115005 proposed additional cameras, data points and switch ports in the Common
Use Self Service (CUSS) kiosks, the Engineer has yet to incorporate the changes into IFC Drawings and
instruct pursuant to CC-C 20.1.1(a).
In relation thereto, the Contractor records that to date, the design information still remains outstanding.
Therefore, the Engineer is urged to issue the revised design and accompanying Instruction to allow the
CUSS works to progress.
The Contractor contends that the Engineer's I Employer's Design Consultant's continued failure to
address
this matter constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's
Personnel. Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the
Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim Delay Notice No. 1014 - Delays to Information and
Communication Technology
Delays to Telephone System Initial Site Acceptance Tests
Dear Sir,
On 21 February 2018, the Contractor received letter ref: 1, dated 21 February 2018 from the
Information
and Communication Technology ('ICT') package subcontractor ('TAVIT'), notifying the Contractor that
although "TAVIT performed TS /SAT ... we ore not able to complete ... some of the test which is related
to
PRI/ines" . TAVIT further stated that this was as a result of "waiting [for] PRI/ines to be ready by ADAC to

perform relate[ d) test cases".
Although it was initially stated by the Employer that the Primary Rate Interface ('PRI') lines would be
ready
by the first week in January 2018, this failed to happen. Further to which, it was subsequently advised
that
the lines would now not be available until the end of February, thereby preventing TAVIT's ability
complete Initial Site Acceptance Tests ('ISAT') in accordance with the provisions of Specification Section
270500 'Common Work Results for Telecommunications'.
Accordingly, it is the Contractor's contention that such pending actions and failures constitute a breach
of
the Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer.
Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby
notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.S.l(c); and
(ii) Damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27 .l.S(a), (b) and (c).
Subject: RE: Internal glazing Works Performance
Dear Sir,
At the outset, the Contractor would like to record that the update of the accelerated target Programme
to
Completion Rev 10.4 (with a data date of 1 February 2018), shows no slippages to the target Substantial
Completion dates set for the different sections.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor notes the content and concerns raised in Engineer's letter
(1).
The Contractor has put in place additional measures to address these concerns, which include but are
not
limited to the following:
Introduction of new suppliers to expedite manufacture and delivery of materials to Site;
The Contractor has conducted visits to suppliers to discuss ways on how to improve the
manufacturing and delivery times of the materials;
The Contractor (and it's Subcontractor) shall increase labour resources at site (as applicable) in
order to match the increased rate of delivery of materials to Site; and
Increase in the levels of plant and equipment in line with increased labour and increased rate of
delivery of materials.
Furthermore, for items that may affect testing and commissioning, and cause and effect testing, the
Contractor shall install temporary measures to enable third fix items to be installed, so that
commissioning

works in critical areas will not be affected.
The Contractor is confident that the additional measures put in place will bear positive results. The
Contractor assures all Parties that the Contractor is using all reasonable endeavours to complete the
Works by the accelerated target completion date.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request for an Engineer's Instruction and Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC SubClause 20.1.4 (b) for Chilled Water System "Lay-up Chemical"
Dear Sir,
We enclose our Mechanical Subcontractor, PCEJV's letter reference: (1) above, whereby they have
proposed two viable options for insertion of lay-up chemical into the MTB chilled water network in
order
to mitigate the risk of contamination.
PCEJV highlighted the ongoing contamination issues in AHU coils due to the increased iron and
suspended
solids, resulted from the lower circulation velocity of chilled water in certain areas.
This will ultimately lead to the formation of pipe slag and corrosion /rust chips, which would loose and
break away from the pipe walls with time and/or once the circulation velocity is increased. Thereafter,
these chips would be carried along with the water and deposited on the inlet side and the internal
surfaces of the AHU coils, causing loss of flow rate, thereby decreasing the cooling efficiency.
Please be advised that, the available mass flow rate in the MTB chilled water network is seventy-two
percent (72%) of the system design volume. As such, the risk of contamination is increasing and will be
Site wide if not managed.
In light of the above, PCEJV has proposed following viable options to mitigate the above risk. The
technical
data for the lay-up chemical, which has been provided by PCEJV, is also enclosed herewith:
1. Insertion of lay-up chemical, whilst continuing circulation, to assist with lower circulation and protect
pipe I coils.
2. Insertion of lay-up chemical and shutting down of the network upon Flushing I Commissioning works.
Implementation of any of the above proposals is a Variation to our Scope of Works and as such, will
have
cost and time implications. In light of the above, we request that the Engineer will take one of the
following actions immediately:
1) Issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Specifications, etc. pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.1 (a)
along with a formal Variation Order pursuant Sub-Clause 20.1.2 of the Conditions of Contract, if
the Engineer requires one of the above proposals to be implemented; Or
2) Propose any other suitable resolution to this issue and advise us accordingly. We trust the Engineer
understands the criticality of the issue and will take necessary actions as a matter
of urgency.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-toWall
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your Request for Variation (RFVO) referenced above and respond as follows;
Your RFVO makes reference to the response given to RFI-10736, and purports this to be the reasoning
for the variation request. Your RFVO states:
On 2 February 2016, TCAJV received response to RF/-10736 in which the Engineer hos noted that the
requirement of the fire resistance direction should come from the top and bottom side of the
suspended ceiling. With this new requirement, a fire rated ceiling fixed wall to wall with secondary
steel supports ore required instead of the hanging ceiling system".
We record the actual three queries raised in RFI-10736 along with the relevant responses;
Question 1 - "Please note that the Fire-Rated Ceiling System {GYB-04} cannot apply for sloped ceiling
areas (following slope in floor level/ramp) as there is no fire-rating test and certification available for
such ceiling (Refer to Attached Letter from Supplier {Gypsemna). Kindly advice how to proceed on those
locations.
Answer 1 - "An engineering judgement combined with test reports for a horizontal shaft wall assembly
noting requisite resilience from both sides (top and bottom) would suffice in this context.
Question 2 - "For some areas IFC dwgs. only mentioned the item as '2 hour fire-rated ceiling' but do
not specify type of ceiling system I material to be used. Kindly specify. (Refer attach. 01 & 02).
Answer 2- "Reference attached ASK-2800 (RFI-10736} (4 sheets) wherein the makeup of the two hour
rated corridor ceiling/stair soffit is explained. Reference attached ASK-2800 (RF/-10736} {4 sheets)
wherein the makeup of the one hour rated gypsum lid serving as stair soffit is explained.
Question 3 - "For ceilings marked as 'Gypsum Assembly', 'Gypsum Floor Assembly' and 'Gypsum Lid'
on IFC drgs, the fire-rating duration and direction of fire attack is not specified. Thus clarify the
difference of each item and provide the specification requirements accordingly. Also provide updated
IFC drgs. (Refer attach. 03 & 04} Answer 3 - "Reference attached ASK-2800 (RF/-10736 {4 sheets)
wherein the makeup of the gypsum
floor assembly (non-load bearing) is explained.
It is evident from the above that the Contractor appears to have misinterpreted the response to RFI10736 and has not demonstrated where any Variation has been introduced in these responses.
The Contractors statement that there is a new requirement in relation to the fire resistance direction
above egress passageways is incorrect. The IFC Drawings define the two hour rated ceiling
requirement in such areas as horizontal shaft wall assemblies supported from wall to wall. Reference
Drawing No. MTC-A-62-TB-L_-_-_-_-00-640(00).
Moreover, the Engineer records that the Contractor's obligation to comply with all fire code
requirements in areas including emergency exit/egress passageways is unchanged. In areas such as
these exit/egress passageways, the implementation of the suspended ceiling detail would not be
compliant and the use of the 2-hour shaft wall detail shown on IFC details is required to be fo llowed.
In light of the above, your request for Variation is denied.
Finally, it has come to our attention that these works are not proceeding at site, despite all technical
clarifications being addressed. Please be advised that any delays will be the Contractors responsibility.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim Delay Notice No. 1002- Engineer's Instruction No. 725
Dear Sir
The Contractor acknowledges receipt on 11 February 2018 of Engineer's Instruction No. 725 ('EI No.
725')
under letter ref: 2, instructing the Contractor to implement Bulletin 247 in relation to the 'Lift Directory
Schedule', in accordance with the information appended thereto.
A preliminary review of El No. 725 indicates that this Instruction will have direct impact on the
completion
and installation of all Lift Directory Signs, plus associated works. Therefore, El No. 725 will potentially
impact on the Contractor's ability to achieve inter alia Milestones MS9A.6, MS08A, MS08B, MS09A.1,
MS09A.2, MS09A.3, MS09A.4, MS09A.5, MS09A.6, MS09A.7, and Milestones MS09B and MS10.
Furthermore, prior to the receipt of El No. 725, the Contractor received El No. 586 on 8 August 2016
(letter ref: 1) instructing to place the Lift Directory Signage Content on hold. Thus, the Contractor hereto
requests the Engineer to confirm if El No. 725 releases the works originally placed on hold by El No. 586.
Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.2 and 27 .1.1, the Contractor
hereby
notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(a)
'Variation'; and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.3
'Variation Procedure'.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Delay Notice No. Delay Notice No. 998- Glass Screen System - Handrails
Dear Sir
On 29 January 2015, the Contractor issued RFEI/0401/0181 under cover of letter ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/003857, dated 27 January 2015, in relation to the 'Glass Balustrade System BAL-05'.
Based upon IFC Drawings and RFI/0401/6131 (received on 17 November 2014), the Contractor noted
structural inadequacies in respect of the handrails and therefore requested revised IFC Drawings to
overcome the deficient design.
A response was received from the Engineer on 22 March 2015, under cover of letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA0401-LTR-03371, dated 18 March 2015. Therein, the inadequacies were accepted and the thickness of
patches on both sides of the glass was increased and the material of the pad between the metal and
glass
was revised. In the covering letter, the Engineer noted that the response constituted a Variation to the
Works for which an Engineer's Instruction would be prepared and issued. This was never received.

However, in the meantime El No. 286A was received on 15 February 2015 under cover of letter ref:
MTCCMATCA-0401-LTR-03158, dated 11 February 2015. This instructed the increase of post sizes to the
internal glazing, in accordance with the 'Performance Requirements' at Part 1.4 of Specification Section
084126, following issues raised in RFI/0401/6660. The Contractor notes that despite subsequent issues,
this infers that the Employer's Design Consultant is responsible for the handrail design and associated
works.
Based on the changes thus far, on 8 June 2015, the Contractor commenced Material Submittals via
MS/0401/A/0736 for 'Fittings for Glass Screen, Glass Balustrade, Glass Lift and Enclosure'. However, due
to unreasonable comments and consequent rejections by the Employer's Design Consultant, these were
not approved until 24 February 2016, under MS/0401/A/0967 Rev. 00.
In the meantime, the Contractor had commenced submission of Calculations AG-CA-TB-A-069 Rev. 0,
under cover of SDS/0401/A/1793 Rev. 0, on 6 October 2015. However, in the Employer's Design
Consultant's initial response on 27 October 2015, a Code 3 'Revise and Resubmit' was provided. The
basis
of which seemed to question the Employer's design set out within the Engineer's response to
RFEI/0401/0181 (letter ref: LTR-03371).
Therefore, SDS/0401/A/1793 Rev. 01 was submitted on 30 May 2016 (incorporating Calculation AG-CATBA069 Rev. 1), following changes made to glazing tables and braces. However, on 9 June 2016, a Code 3
response was again provided. The Employer's Design Consultant advised that changes should be made
to
the connections of the plates under the handrails. However, as this inferred acceptance of a deficient
design, an instruction pursuant to CC-C 20.1.1(a) would be required.
Nevertheless, on 19 July 2016, SDS/0401/1793 Rev. 02 was submitted on 19 July 2016 (incorporating
Calculation AG-CA-TB-A-069 Rev. 2), addressing comments made on the previous submission. In addition
to the Engineer providing a response 50 calendar days late, the Calculation was again returned with a
Code 3 'Revise and Resubmit'. The Employer's Design Consultant advised that the plate under the
handrail
that connects the handrail to the bracket was not working and several changes were proposed.
Furthermore, it was erroneously opined that the design of this connection was the Contractor's
responsibility. However, the Engineer is reminded that that this design is based upon El No. 268A.
Therefore, responsibility of the design cannot now be shifted to the Contractor.
Furthermore, if the Contractor was to undertake the design, it is not entirely clear why the Employer's
Design Consultant would choose to review, comment and code structural calculations when 3'd party
testing of the design would suffice.
Based on the foregoing, 3'd party testing was undertaken which found that the current design was
structurally adequate. The results of the 3'd party test were provided within SDS/0401/A/1793 Rev. 03
(incorporating Calculation AG-CA-TB-A-069 Rev. 3).
However, on 14 September 2017, a Code 3 response was once again received. This introduced further
structural parameters without basis. Consequent on the unreasonable comments and rejection,
numerous

emails were exchanged with the Employer, commencing 11 October 2017, in which the Contractor
sought
a comprehensive list of deliverables that the Employer's Design Consultant was expecting to find in the
handrail tests. The 3'd party testing company would be advised accordingly, in order to mitigate ongoing
delays, caused by the unnecessary reviews and rejections.
This exchange of emails continued until January 2018. Following which, on 15 February 2018, the
Contractor submitted SDS/0401/A/1793 Rev. 4 (incorporating Calculation AG-CA-TB-A-069 Rev. 4),
which
addressed all deliverables and comments raised by the Employer's Design Consultant.
A response has not yet been received.
The Contractor contends that the Engineer's I Employer's Design Consultant's continued unnecessary
reviews and failure to approve Submittals constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on
the
part of the Employer's Personnel. Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2
and 27.1.1, the Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract. Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and
adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.S(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Briefing Packs Change Management Team
Dear Sir,
The Engineer's letter (1), issued in response to Contractor letter (2), has stated that "non-relevant"
personnel is defined, by the Engineer, as Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The
Engineer has further gone on to state in letter (1) that the request and agreement for the briefing pack
change management team was for technical resources only.
At the outset, the Contractor would like to record its disappointment with the contents of Engineer's
letter (1), as well as the stance the Engineer has taken on this issue thus far. The Engineer is reminded
that
the participation of the Contractor in the briefing pack process was a voluntary process. The Contractor
participated in good faith, in the interest of the progression of the Works and to assist the Employer in
rectifying and completing the Employer's incomplete and uncoordinated design. The Engineer is aware
that the participation of the Contractor in the briefing pack process is not an Employer entitlement
under
the Contract.
The Engineer has referred to the proposal attached to Contractor letter (3) as the basis for the
Engineer's
rejection of the timesheets of the Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The Engineer

has however failed to recognise ROM ref (4) which formed part of the Contractor's proposal issued via
letter (3) . The ROM ref (4) identified the requirement for Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial
resources .
Furthermore, Engineer's Instruction (EI) no 323 states that "You are hereby instructed, pursuant to
Clause
20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Contract, to appoint and implement competent and sufficient resources
to
address the completion of all design items ...... ". Following receipt of El no 323, the Contractor complied
with the instruction and ensured that competent and sufficient resources were deployed to assist the
Employer's Design Consultants in concluding the design. These competent resources included but were
not limited to: Technical staff, Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The Contractor
having complied with the instruction of the Engineer is now being deprived of its entitlement under the
Contract. As previously mentioned in letter (2) all the time claimed by the Contractor is for actual hours
spent by personnel of the Contractor (and its Subcontractors') who were directly involved in assisting
the
Employer's Design Consultants during the briefing pack process. The Contractor, pursuant to clause 11.4,
insists that the Engineer assess the final value of the Variation
Order in a fair manner, taking into account all relevant circumstances but paying particular regard to the
obligation of the Contractor under the Contract in relation to assisting the Employer to complete its
design.
The Contractor looks forward to the speedy resolution of this issue.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Replacement of Damaged Glass in the PrO South Gable l2.0- Contractor's
Dear Sir,
Instruction Ref Cl-0342
Further to the Subcontractor's letter references (1) and (2), please note the following:
1. The Subcontractor sent one site observation report and two letters (5)(7) which identified the Other
Subcontractor China State Construction and Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) as the party who
allegedly damaged the glass in the PrD south gable L2.0. Considering that the Subcontractor's
correspondence has already been forwarded to CSCEC, it is unfortunate that the Subcontractor
changes now its narrative and blames the damage on a different organization.
2. In view of point 1 above, the Contractor does not concur with the Subcontractor that the facts are
'indisputable'. The Contractor reiterates that the Subcontractor remains responsible for providing
sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of
its claim.
3. The Contractor finds the Subcontractor's expression of disappointment regrettable, because under
the Conditions of Subcontract, if the Subcontractor considers itself to be entitled to additional
payment, the Subcontractor is obliged to provide supporting and further particulars as the Contractor
may reasonable require. To be clear, whilst requesting the Subcontractor to provide reasonable
evidence that the Subcontract Works were properly protected as required by Clauses 15.6.2 and

24.2.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor is neither deflecting responsibility nor
depriving the Subcontractor of its rights.
Subject: Payment to ELV on behalf of Bond Trading Co. LLV4. The Contractor understands that the
Subcontractor believes itself to be entitled to a Variation;
however, it has not explained why the rectification of the damage constitutes a Variation to the
Subcontract.
5. It is because of the Subcontractor's failure to comply with all the above that the Contractor has been
unable to attempt to recover moneys from Other Subcontractor(s). Therefore, the Subcontractor's
allegation that the Contractor is in breach of its duty of care is adamantly rejected.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has issued to the Subcontractor an instruction which is
necessary
for the remedying of defects (3) in accordance with Clause 11.3.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract. Be
reminded that the Subcontractor 'shall comply with the instructions given by the Contractor on any
matter
related to the Subcontract' pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned clause. In other words, the
Subcontractor does not have the right to state that 'procurement will be dependent upon us first
receiving
your formal variation order instruction' and is breach of Subcontract whilst refusing to comply with the
instruction given by the Contractor.
Pursuant to Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor hereby
notifies
the Subcontractor that it shall make good its failure and comply with the Contractor's instruction within
seven
days of this notice.
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Subcontractor's letter reference: (1) above, please be advised that, the Contractor
accepts the Subcontractor's request and will make a direct payment to the Subcontractor's services
consultant, "ELV International Engineering Consultancy", subject to the followings:
• The total amount, which the Contractor would directly pay to the Subcontractor's services
consultant, shall be deducted from the amount certified by the Contractor for payment to the
Subcontractor, in Payment Certificate No.49.
• The Subcontractor shall remain responsible for the payments to all of its services consultants and
the Sub-subcontractors, and shall arrange to make all due payments to its other services consultants
and the Sub-subcontractors. Moreover, the Subcontractor shall provide the Contractor with
reasonable evidence of such payments, in accordance with Sub-Clause 21.3 [Payments to
Subsubcontractors],
prior to the submission of the next Statement.
Please be advised that, the aforementioned direct payment by the Contractor to ELV International
Engineering Consultancy is not intended to create, and shall not create, any contractual relationship or
other relationship whether reliance based, or otherwise, between the Contractor and ELV International
Engineering Consultancy.

Yours faithfully,
Subject Subcontractor's Variations- Additional Design Fees
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to its letters (1) and (2) wherein the Subcontractor was requested to separate and
provide further substantiation in respect of the additional design fees claimed in its requests for
Variation
Orders. Despite this having been requested a while ago, the Contractor has not yet received a separate
submission which provides sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the claimed additional design fees.
The Contractor reiterates the request, made via the abovementioned correspondence, numerous
meetings and query sheets, that at least the following information is provided:
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in the rates of the Bill of
Quantities. This explanation shall clearly identify both the engineering services which, in the
Subcontractor's opinion, are included in the Subcontract rates and the engineering cost that cannot
be recovered by using such rates.
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in any other item of the
Subcontractor's Variation or claim submissions. The Subcontractor shall clarify that this engineering
cost is not being claimed I recovered through preliminaries, acceleration, etc.
Detailed explanation on why the engineering cost has increased.
Detailed particulars of the design deliverable in question that allegedly got aborted prior to its
submission, i.e. for each case provide a timeline, evidence of the incomplete shop drawing I design
calculation etc.
Detailed demonstration that through the 'additional design fee' the Subcontractor is not recovering
abortive design costs associated to engineering errors made by the Subcontractor. Further, the
Subcontractor shall also prove that the 'additional design fee' does not relate to engineering costs
associated to the Subcontractor's base scope of works.
Detailed design cost presentation to the Engineer and the Employer explaining the above.
To be clear, the Subcontractor shall clarify the above listed points whilst providing all necessary
substantiation, i.e. timesheets of hours actually expended, transmittals made when the design was
aborted etc. Please note that since submitting its commercial proposals, the Subcontractor has not
provided the documents required to 'back up' the additional engineering resources claimed. There is no
reason why the Subcontractor has not provided this supporting information thus exacerbating the
Contractor's inability to assess the Subcontractor's entitlement to the 'additional design fee'. Hence, the
Subject: Defects liability Period (DLP) 0 &M Services
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Engineer's letters (1) and (2), and responds as follows:
The purpose of this letter is to seek the Engineer's cooperation to finally resolve the ongoing matter of
the

provision of the DLP O&M Services, in accordance with clause 28.1 of the Contract. As the Engineer will
no
doubt agree, this matter has been the subject of discussions for a lengthy duration and it is in all Parties
interests for the matter to be resolved quickly.
By way of reminder, the Engineer initially gave conditional approval for the appointment of Gemma SpA
("Gemma") as the Subcontractor to carry out the DLP O&M services. As the Engineer is aware, despite
extensive efforts on the part of the Contractor, it has not been possible for the Contractor to obtain
Gemma's agreement to the additional condition insisted upon by the Engineer. In this regard, we
acknowledge the recent withdrawal of the conditional approval of Gemma by the Engineer in its letter
ref
(2L on the grounds that Gemma has failed to provide it with a "letter of commitment confirming Gemmo
will be fully involved in the installation process of all specialist systems" and that "the TCA-JV will obtain
Gemma's approval/acceptance of all relevant shop drawings".
Notwithstanding the submission by the Contractor of the prequalification documents of Gemmo, and for
the avoidance of any doubt, the Contractor emphasises that the Contract places no obligation on the
Contractor to appoint a specialist subcontractor to carry out the DLP O&M Services. The Contractor also
believes it is confusing for the Engineer to use the terminology of "independent FM Company" as there
is
no reference or requirement under the Contract for this appointment of an "independent FM
Company".
The Contractor after having given extensive consideration as to what is in the best interest of the Project
in relation to the DLP O&M Services, the Contractor has decided that it shall undertake the provision of
the DLP O&M Services using an in-house Facilities Management (FM) team, comprised of competent
senior airport facilities management professionals, with the appropriate levels of experience,
qualifications and training. The Contractor further advises that the use of the in-house FM team meets
the
additional requirement of the Engineer in relation to being "fully involved in the installation process of
all
specialist systems" and "approval/acceptance of all relevant shop drawings" as the Contractor has been
involved in these. The in-house FM team has already been involved in the following processes, in line
with the Employer's
requests:
• Engaging with the O&M Manuals Preparation Process - reviewing the manuals from an
operational point of view and making sure that they are fit for purpose;
• Engaging with the Spare Parts Management Process - reviewing the Spare Parts Lists and
determining the quantities of reliable spare parts stock level needed for uninterrupted operation;
• Engaging with the Asset Management Process- participating in the Asset Management process to
transfer know-how;
• Conducting a Scope Analysis to Identify the Scope of the Project and conducting a scope gap
analysis together with a scope variation analysis;
• Engaging with High Level Equipment Strategy;
• Engaging with Training Scheduling Process; and

• Conducting the Response Time Assessment.
The Contractor attaches hereto the details of our in-house FM approach for the DLP period, for your
review and feedback.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Recovery of Overheads and Profit for Fit Out Works to Departure & Arrival, Pavilions, Icon Stores
& Arcade Areas
Dear Sir,
We write in response of correspondence (1) and of RFVO (2) in which you claim entitlement for
Preliminaries, Preambles, Overheads and Profit due to the omission of planned fit out works to the
Departure and Arrivals, Pavilions, Icon Stores and Arcade Areas.
In the RFVO, the Contractor claims that as result of Engineer's Instruction No. 561C omitting the
planned scope from the Contract, you are entitled to recover an amount of AED 12,286,628.25 based
on a tendered proposal by Cloisall.
The RFVO provides no clear contractual reference to the claimed entitlement and is consequently
rejected by the Engineer. Further, the omission of works (which in this case were not part of the
original scope of works) does not entitle the Contractor to claim for loss of profit and overheads as set
out in Preamble 12 of Schedule 6 of the /Bills of Quantities.
Furthermore, the Contractor in correspondence (1) has stated that the Employer is allegedly in breach
of Contract. The Contractor shall evidence the alleged damage it has incurred which entitles it to be
compensated. Furthermore, the Contractor is required to assess and determine its Subcontractor's
claim and provide substantiation on the cost it has incurred as a result of this alleged breach of
Contract.
Construction
Subject The Subcontractor's Misinterpretation in respect of the Provision of Cranage
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1} and (2) wherein the Subcontractor, on one hand,
acknowledges that it requested payment to the Contractor for cranage not used on the Project and, on
the other, requests the Contractor rents on its behalf two mobile cranes. In addition to this, in both
letters
the Subcontractor, whilst referring to Event No. 27 in its Extension of Time No.2 submission, reiterates
its
claim that all crane related expenses incurred on the Project are not within its scope of work. To be
clear:
Clause 2.1.3 of Appendix E [Scope of Subcontract Works for Precast Bridges Work Package] of the
Instructions to Tenderers states that the Contractor would provide tower cranage 'in accordance with
site
logistics plan as and when available and within load capacities. The crane time will be scheduled on a
day

to day basis and the Subcontractor will be required to plan their works to suit'. Further, Clause 4.2.55 of
Appendix E states that the Subcontractor would 'provide adequate mobile cranaqe for the Subcontract
Works for the offloading and horizontal movement of materials at times when the Main Contractor's
facilities are not available to the Subcontractor'.
If, as it now asserts, the Subcontractor relied on the tower cranes being provided when required rather
than when available, then the Subcontractor misinterpreted Clause 2.1.3, Clause 4.2.55 and related
provisions of the Letter of Award Documents. The usage noted in the Tower Crane Layout Drawings
coupled with the caveats set down in both Clause 2.1.3 and Clause 4.2.55, ought to have alerted the
Subcontractor to take a more prudent view and to allow in the Subcontract Price for 'all cranage,
horizontal and vertical transportation' as stated in Appendix A.1 [Scope of Subcontract Works], Section
2,
paragraph 2.1 9.
Moreover, and contrary to what it now claims, the Subcontractor did include in the Subcontract Price for
the on-Site cranage necessary for the installation of the precast units. This is apparent from the
Subcontractor's submitted Tender; in particular the Bill of Quantities, which in Bill No. 2 (Bill 2/A/3}
includes the sum of AED 8,200,000 against Item A [Cranes for production yard and site installation] .
Consistent with this is the note in both the 'Form of Tender' submitted by the Subcontractor on 07 April
Subject RE: Reminder of Delay in Issuing a Work Permit for the Scissor Lift Manufactured to Install GRC
Panels
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference {1} wherein the Subcontractor argues that it has not
yet received a response on its method statement and therefore it has been unable to expedite its
progress
whilst using scissor lifts. The Contractor notes the following:
The first revision of the Subcontractor's method statement reference MS-1093-TEM-130 was
received on 07 November 2017. The Contractor rejected this document with a code-3 due to the
Subcontractor's proposed lifting operations not providing sufficient information in respect of the
Subcontractor's compliance with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements. The first
revision ofthe method statement was returned to the Subcontractor on 15 November 2017.
The second revision of the Subcontractor's method statement was received by the Contractor on
21 November 2017 and forwarded to the Engineer on 29 November 2017. The second revision of
this document was rejected by the Engineer with a code-3 and returned to the Subcontractor on
11 December 2017. The Engineer provided numerous comments that required to be addressed by
the Subcontractor.
On 19 December 2017, the Subcontractor re-submitted its method statement; however this
submission was incomplete as numerous documents requested previously by the Engineer had
not been included (e .g. response/comment sheet, risk assessment, certificates, etc.). During the
subsequent weeks the Subcontractor drip-fed the Contractor with the missing documents, yet
some of these were still erroneous and/or incomplete (please refer to attached email
correspondence) .

The Subcontractor did not submit a revised method statement until 09 January 2018. This third
revision of the method statement was forwarded to the Engineer who issued a code-2 on 07
February 2018.
In summary, any alleged delays incurred by the Subcontractor in obtaining the work permit for the use
of
scissor lifts results from its inability to make a proper and complete method statement submission.
Furthermore, during this entire process the Contractor used its best efforts to assist the Subcontractor
whilst organising workshops attended by representatives of its HSE and technical departments. This
assistance I guidance aimed to prevent additional costs to the Subcontractor resulting from the Engineer
exercising its rights under Section 1.1.3.A.3.g of Specification 01330 and back-charging the
Subcontractor
for further submittals reviews due to its negligence to transmit conforming submittals. To be clear, this
is
over and above any responsibility of the Contractor who deems prudent to remind that, pursuant to
Clause 1.3 of the letter of Award, 'the Sub-Contractor is deemed to have full knowledge and
understanding of the Project requirements, Drawings and Specifications [ ... ]'.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Subcontractor's Application for an Extension of Time No. 1 and No. 2 - Preliminary Assessment
and Outstanding Information
Dear Sirs,
Further to the receipt of letter references (1) to {3), please find below additional information required to
enable the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's applications for an extension of time.
In respect of Extension of Time No. 1 (EOT-1) for the period from 14 July 2013 to 05 March 2015
submitted via the Subcontractor's letter reference (1):
a. Please note that the 20 nos. XER file of the 20 nos. window used in the Subcontractor's claim
submission are corrupted and were imported into Primavera P6 with errors. Notwithstanding this,
the Contractor proceeded with its analysis and is currently verifying the as-built information in
these 20 nos. file using the imported data. For the sake of accuracy and in order to expedite the
Contractor's assessment, the Subcontractor's is kindly requested to provide a set of fresh copies
of these XER files.
b. The initial review of these 20 nos. file shows that the analysed programmes are progress updates
done on rev.-05 of the Subcontractor's baseline programme. Please confirm that these monthly
progress updates, together with its monthly reports, have been submitted to the Contractor.
c. The Subcontractor included in attachment 1.2 to EOT-1 a summary table of its window analysis.
The Contractor notes that the completion dates provided in the fifth column of this table do not
match with the completion dates in the 20 nos. XER file provided with its EOT-1 submission.
Please clarify.
d. The Subcontractor provided delay fragnet programmes for three delay events in Primavera P6
under attachments 1.3A, 1.3B and 1.3C to its EOT-1 claim. Please provide the XER files of these
delay fragnet programmes.

In relation to Extension of Time No. 2 (EOT-2) for the period from 06 March 2015 to 22 December 2016
submitted via the Subcontractor's letter references (2) and (3):
a. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor used rev.-05 of its baseline for its application for
EOT-1. Further, the Subcontractor submitted, via its transmittal reference 13040-GPC-PD-HWTCAJVMTB-0282 dated 26 April 2015, an accelerated programme based on the Contractor'sProgramme Rev.6.2; however, rev.-01, rev.-02 and rev.-03 baseline programmes were attached
to the Subcontractor's EOT-2 application. It is not clear which programme revision has been used
by the Subcontractor for analysing the delay events of its EOT-2. Please clarify.
b. The Subcontractor enclosed under Appendix I of its EOT-2 submission an 'as-built programme' as
of 22 December 2016 prepared on rev.-02 of its baseline. This 'as-built programme' was
submitted in pdf format. Please provide the corresponding XER file.
c. The Subcontractor used three windows in its EOT-2 submission, viz:
Window 1-from 14 July 2013 to OS March 2015
Window 2- from 06 March 2015 to 31 December 2015
Window 3- from 01 January 2016 to 22 December 2016
The Subcontractor submitted the relevant delay analysis programmes under Appendices M, Nand
0 of its EOT-2 application. These delay analysis programmes were also submitted in pdf format.
Please provide the corresponding XER files.
d. The Subcontractor included 32 delay events in its EOT-2 submission. Please note that:
For delay event nos. 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32, only
cost details have been submitted, i.e. no information has been provided thus far to assess
the time entitlement in respect of these delay events.
For delay event nos. 3, 5, 7, 8, 20, 21 and 22, only 'summary programmes' in pdf format
have been submitted. Please note that these 'summary programmes' may not provide
sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the Subcontractor's time entitlements.
For delay event nos. 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, 23, 25 and 26, the Subcontractor submitted a
'fragmented programme' of delay fragnets prepared in Primavera P6. This 'fragmented
programme' was submitted in pdf format only. Please provide the corresponding XER file(s)
to enable further review of these delay events.
In summary, the Contractor understands that the Subcontractor used rev.-05 and rev.-02 of its baseline
programme for its EOT-1 and EOT-2 submissions respectively. The Contractor would have expected that
the Subcontractor had used for its EOT-2 submission progress updates on either rev.-05 of its baseline or
the accelerated programme dated April 2015. Please clarify this.
Please be kindly requested to furnish the Contractor with both the above requested clarifications and
additional documents thus enabling it to continue with its assessment of the Subcontractor's
entitlements. Please further note, that this letter is not, of itself, to be considered as an admission of any
entitlement to an extension of time and/or additional payment, nor does it constitute a waiver of any of
the terms of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Employment of International Decor Staff

Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter (1) wherein the Subcontractor claim that Arabtec has
approached
one of the Subcontractor's site foreman and offered him an offer employment to work on the Project.
Please note that the Subcontractor's letter (1) does not provide the minimum level of detail (names,
dates,
etc.) that enables the Contractor to investigate the alleged wrongdoing fu rther. Notwithstanding this, it
appears to the Contractor that this situation may have been a simple misunderstanding by the
Subcontractor's site foreman.
To be clear, neither the Contractor nor the companies comprising the Joint Venture intend to employ
the
Subcontractor's personnel to undertake works on the Project.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Ban of Anel Emirates Project Execution Board Member- Mr. Zafer Gene
Dear Sir,
With reference to Anel's letter reference: {1) above, please be advised that the Contractor's instruction
to
return Mr. Zafer Gene's Site Access Badge and the Vehicle Pass is in conformity with the Contractor's
decision to remove Mr. Zafer Gene from the positions of Subcontractor's Representative and the Project
Manager, which has been notified to the Subcontractor via the Contractor's letters reference: {6) and {3)
above.
Please be advised that, neither the Subcontract recognises a 'Project Execution Board', nor has the
Contractor approved Mr. Zafer Gene as a member of such project execution board, as mentioned in the
Subcontractor's letter reference: (1) above. The temporary provision of Mr. Zafer Gene's Site Access
Badge and the Vehicle Pass, after the aforementioned removal, was based on the Subcontractor's
request
and for a limited period.
In light of the above, the Contractor advises the Subcontractor to comply with the above inst ruction
and
return Mr. Zafer Gene's Site Access Badge and the Vehicle Pass immediately.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's Application for Extension of Time No. 02- Black Flag Days
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the Subcontractor's application for the reimbursement of costs associated to its
Extension of Time No. 2 made via its letter reference (1), particularly, to the Subcontractor's alleged
right
to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the reduced productivity of its workforce during the
summer.

The Subcontractor claims that its ability to comply with its intended programme was impacted by the
unfavourable weather conditions and high temperatures prevalent during the summer months.
Additional
breaks and increased quantity of water for site operatives are cited by the Subcontractor as examples of
how its activity was disrupted and its productivity reduced . The Subcontractor submitted disruption
costs
in an amount of AED 9,015,919.84 for labour that allegedly remained idle during the months of April
2015
to December 2016 and included a cost breakdown under Appendix 5 to its 'Application for the
Reimbursement of Prolongations Associated Costs' narrative.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that the majority of the idle periods claimed by the Subcontractor comprise
interruptions occurred during the 'summer midday ban' imposed by the Ministry of Human Resources
and
Emiratisation. The 'summer midday ban' is a mandatory break for UAE's labourers thus making illegal
working outdoors between 12.30 pm and 3.00 pm from 15 June until15 September. The 'summer
midday
ban' has been in force in the UAE for the last 13 years; hence, the Subcontractor should have considered
these mandatory breaks when preparing its programme and forecasting its productivity during the
summer.
In respect of those interruptions occurred during periods outside the 'summer midday break', the
Contractor confirms that the Project's Health and Safety Plan includes an effective heat stress
programme
which assesses environmental conditions utilizing the Thermal Work Limit (TWL) to determine work/rest
breaks and water consumption requirements for employees. In accordance with Abu Dhabi
Occupational
Safety and Health System Framework, the implementation of such heat stress programme is a
mandatory
requirement at any worksite that has, or is it reasonably foreseeable to have, a temperature at or above
35 degrees Celsius. The Contractor is of the opinion that an Experienced Subcontractor should have
foreseen that the temperatures on Site would exceed 35 degrees Celsius during the summer and
therefore should have predicted (and allowed for) occurrences of interruptions during the hot season in
the UAE. Please be reminded that pursuant to Clause 12.14.4 and Clause 14.7.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract,
the Subcontractor shall fully comply with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements as may be
reasonably revised from time to time. Moreover, in accordance with the provisions of Clause 14.4.1, it is
the Subcontractor's obligation to comply with 'all labour related Applicable Laws relevant to the
Subcontractor's Personnel, including the Labour Law, Social Security Law and any other Applicable Laws
relating to their employment, health, safety, welfare'.
Notwithstanding the fact that the Site records of stoppages occurred due to hot weather differ from
those
claimed by the Subcontractor, the Contractor confirms that it proceeded fully in compliance with both
the

Subcontract and the Applicable Laws whilst stopping the execution of the works when the high
temperature environment jeopardised the safety of the Personnel working on Site. Should the
Subcontractor be of the opinion that the Contractor's 'flags' were declared whilst it was safe for its
labourers to work, relevant evidence shall be provided thus demonstrating that the TWL was within the
tolerance limits.
Finally, please be informed that the Contractor has undertaken an assessment of the Subcontractor's
claim for reimbursement of additional costs as a result of 'Black Flag Days' and all relevant circumstances
in connection with such event. The Contractor has concluded that the contractual basis of the
Subcontractor's claim is invalid on account of the fact that the Subcontractor's abidance by the Health
and
Safety regulations is both a contractual and legal obligation of the Subcontractor.
Stuart
Subject: Subcontractor's Obligations under Clause 12.5.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract Maintenance
of Performance Security

Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers the Subcontractor to Interim Payment Certificate No. 51 which records the value
of the
Subcontract Works carried out up to the end of November 2017.
The Contractor records that, up to the end of November 2017, Variation Orders and contra charges had
been
issued to the Subcontractor in amounts of AED 72,304,567.82 and AED (12,529,289.28) respectively. The
issuance of these Variation Orders and contra charges has resulted in an adjustment to the Subcontract
Price
equal to AED 59,775,278.54. In other words, the Subcontract Price has been increased by an amount
greater
than the percentage specified in Schedule 1 [Subcontract Particulars] which is ten percent (10%).
Pursuant to the provisions of Clause 12.5.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor directs the
Subcontractor to provide an additional security so that the increased amount of security is the
percentage of
the increased Subcontract Price within fourteen (14) days of receipt of this direction.
Subject: RE: Notice of Delay- Bottom Last Panel for Car Park Link Bridge (CPLB)
Dear Sir,
Further to the Subcontractor's letter reference (1), please find attached the response received from the
Other Subcontractor Gulf Precast Company LLC (Gulf Precast) in respect of the alleged misalignment of
the concrete slab edge of the CPLB.
Gulf Precast refutes the Subcontractor's claim and confirms that the slab edges of the CPLB were
executed

within the permitted tolerance limits. Gulf Precast further affirms that the concrete slab was executed
more than fourteen months ago and therefore is surprised about the Subcontractor's delayed allegation
that the edge is 'out of tolerance'. The Contractor concurs with Gulf Precast and confirms that it will not
accept any liability vis-a-vis any delay incurred by the Subcontractor in the completion of the CPLB
derived
from its late notification of this issue.
For the record, the Contractor regrets the Subcontractor's lack of cooperative approach in respect of
notifying the parties in advance, coordinating with Other Subcontractors, producing the sketches
requested by the Contractor and/or assisting in proposing a technical solution to this problem.
Notwithstanding the above and further to the joint survey undertaken between the Contractor, the
Subcontractor and Gulf Precast, the Subcontractor is requested to consult with Gulf Precast and assist
the
Contractor in finding a satisfactory solution to this issue.
Yours faithfully,
Stuart Matthews
Subject: RE: Notice of Delay for Side Opaque Bridge Input Information
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor claims that the
Contractor's failure to provide the handrail and slab edge design details is having both cost and time
impact on the Subcontract Works. To be clear:
The Subcontractor shall provide its own framing following the structural IFC design and in line
with the principles set out in the IFC architectural packages. This is clearly stated in paragraph 2 of
the 'Narrative for Fa!;ade Package Subcontract' which is an integral part of Schedule 0 [Scope of
Subcontract Works] of the Subcontract and reads as follows: 'The steel structure demonstrated on
the architectural drawings is indicative only. The scope of steel structure works are clearly defined
in the structural steelwork drawings (i.e. Books 2i, 2j and 2k}. The Facade Sub-Contractor is
expected to provide all the framing system required to support his own cladding system and
coordinate his works with all related trades including structural steel to provide a full solution'.
The Subcontractor is still expected to resubmit its shop drawings for the approval of the fascia
cladding considering the above and in accordance with the modulation defined in (2) and (4).
The Subcontractor is also requested to leave 350 mm at each side of its fascia joint to allow for
the provision of a support framing for these handrail posts (if required).
The Contractor is currently coordinating with the Other Subcontractor Leader Metal to obtain
confirmation on the size of the penetration into the Subcontractor's top panel (if any is required);
however, such detail requires KPF finalises the design for the additional steel frame to support the
aluminium parapet and handrail at the opaque bridges. Please be aware that the Contractor has
already notified the Engineer that any further delays in the completion of KPF's detailed design
may impact the Works via its Notice of Likely Delay No. 2713 (3). Hence, the Contractor advises
that the Subcontractor proceeds with the submission of its shop drawings whilst including a note

on the drawings that the top panels will be finalised upon receipt of the final details from KPF. For the
sake of clarity, the Contractor confirms that the design details pending confirmation shall not
prevent the Subcontractor from submitting its shop drawings or continuing with the remaining items of
work associated to this fascia.
Subject:Prohibition Notice - Unsafe Installation of Arch Cladding Panels
Dear Sir,
Please find attached Prohibition Notice reference MTC-CMA-0401-HS-REP-SPN-00015 dated 26th
February 2018 which is self-explanatory.
Pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] of the Conditions of the Subcontract, you are
hereby instructed to fully comply with the attached Prohibition Notice specified therein.
Should you have queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,
Subject OTIS's ongoing lack of performance- Follow up on Notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the
Conditions of Contract
We write with reference to letter {1) and the provided Notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the
Conditions of Contract regarding your Subcontractor's {OTIS) lack of performance.
Despite the provided Notice and request for the Contractor to rectify its Subcontractor's performance to
date we have not received any rectification plan and mitigation measures.
The Contractor is reminded that if in 28 Days from the service of the notice to the Contractor the
Subcontractor's performance has not been rectified, the Employer or the Engineer pursuant to Clause
12.10.3 of the Conditions of Contract may notify the Contractor to immediately terminate its
Subcontractor or to remove and replace any employees or agents of the Subcontractor.
The Contractor shall be held responsible for all the delays associated with its Subcontractor's
underperformance.
Yours faithfully
Subject PROHIBITION NOTICE FORM
This SPN is issued following repetitive concerns raised with the Contractor due to your arch cladding
works being conducted outside of the accepted safe work methodology (RAMS) on the MTB.
In line with legislative and contractual obligations the Contractor is prohibited to conduct any activities
associated with these works outside of the agreed safe work methodology (RAMS).

The following repetitive deviations from your accepted safe work methodology have been conducted
during your arch cladding installation works and are prohibited:•
•
•

Lifting/transporting large panels inside the MEWP basket.
Conducting panel installation works at different WAH levels on the same vertical drop line.
Manual handling large panels from baskets over the top of the arch steel.

ACTION:
1.
Contractor can continue with the arch cladding activities only within the agreed and accepted
methodology detailed in RAMS (MS-1093-201-14QA). Note: RAMS Review Comment Sheet, Point 3;
contractor clarifies that Aluminium cladding panels will be lifted by winch motor only.
2.
Contractor must enforce the prevention of any actions/behaviors that are not in line with the
accepted safe work methodology (RAMS).
3.
Contractor is required to review your current systems and ensure that mechanisms are in place
to prevent the installation of lengthy Arch cladding panels using man lift in all areas due to the
associated risk.
4.
Contractor to review current methodology and provide a revised RAMS for official review if
alternative methods/sequence is required.
5.
Contractor must ensure that Daily briefings, TBT, as well as fully communicated to all arch
cladding installation team on correct and accepted methodology is conducted.
Note: Enforcement of this notice is mandatory, future violations in accordance with this Prohibition
Notice will be treated with zero tolerance for responsible parties.
Subject:Recovery of Overheads and Profit for Fit Out Works to Departure & Arrival,
Pavilions, Icon Stores & Arcade Areas
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference (6) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another Contractor(s). As
we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to
give to other contractors. (See references 1 to 3).
In view of the above, and with reference to the previous correspondence regarding similar matters as
mentioned above, we reiterate that the matter of fact that the Engineer is in breach of Contract
remains. As described elaborately in the previous correspondence, every single commentary, all legal
sources and every court has come to the conclusion that under the terms of most Contracts, and in this
case our Contract, an Employer who exercises a power to omit work must genuinely require the work
not to be done at all, and cannot exercise such a power with a view to having the work carried out by
someone else.

Furthermore, under UAE law, at the very least, the remedy for such breach is the Contractor's lost
profits and lost overheads . Consequently, there is nothing in regards to this matter from previous
similar cases, that permits the Engineer to violate principles of good-faith and proceed with omitting
works from the Contractor to be carried out by someone else without an appropriate remedy to the
Contractor.
To conclude, we notify you that our position remains the same, that the Engineer is in indeed in breach
of Contract and as per our letter reference (5) we reserve our rights under the Contract in regards to this
breach and we require an applicable compensation accordingly.
This is for your kind information.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation
Dear Sir,
In response to your referenced letters (2) to (4) and other letters with similar content sent by you
previously, wherein you have been alleging that you have no sufficient work front, we respond as
follows.
We refute your allegations in its entirety and clarify for the record that you currently have more than
14,000 m2 available work front for stone installation works in CP Level 2 and 3. Please refer to the
attached drawings for CP Level 2.0 and 3.0 which indicate the available work fronts for stone
installation. For ease of reference find below a table indicating the CP works to date, as mentioned
above:
We once again reiterate, as stated in our letter reference (1), that we remain increasingly concerned
regarding your delays and lack of progress at site, which has not improved despite our recurrent
instructions to proceed with the works without any delay. Furthermore, the delays are due to your lack
of manpower and lack of materials on site which you had previously been instructed to increase and
take remedial measures but failed to do so. Please note that your failure to use the required resources
as instructed, constitutes a breach of Contract. Consequently, your attention is drawn to Subcontract
Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] which sets out your obligations as:
"8.1.2 The Subcontractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that it completes the Subcontract
Works, and each and every part of the Subcontract Works, in such manner and in such time so as to
allow the Contractor to comply with any obligations under the Contract … The Subcontractor shall
neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of the Contractor or other subcontractors. The
Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works as the Contractor

may reasonably instruct... The Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources
accelerate its performance, work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as
necessary to maintain progress of the Subcontract Works. ",
On the basis of the above, you are hereby informed that there is sufficient stone installation work-front
which is adequate for the next few weeks ahead. Therefore, as previously stated within a plethora of
correspondences, you will be held completely culpable for any associated delays in regards to the
matter discussed herein.
Accordingly, you are instructed to provide an action Plan to mitigate the delays strictly in accordance
with Clause 16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays] and coordinate your works in a proper sequence by means of
continuous communication with our construction team, to avoid any similar future events.
In light of the above, it is noted that your effort aiming to generate alleged claims by presenting
incorrect information, will hold no ground and will only drag the issues longer. As such, you are
requested to refrain from generating unnecessary correspondence and proceed on site without any
further delay to complete the works.
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice to Refrain for Subcontractor Direct Communication to Employer/Engineer
Dear Sir,
In reference to the above mentioned subject we hereby advise the Subcontractor/s to diligently follow
the Project Protocol in regards to the flow of documents and communication concerning the above
mentioned project.
Pursuant to Sub Clause 9.18.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract embodied in the above mentioned
Letter of Award "The Subcontractor shall act as an independent contractor in performing the
Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its employees and all Sub-subcontractors and
shall in no case represent, or be the agent of. the Contractor or act in the Contractor's name without
the prior written consent of the Contractor."
As in line with the above mentioned conditions, you are instructed to refrain for any direct
communication to the Employer/Engineer regarding any project related matters. Any subcontractor's
procedure for acquiring contract documents clarification, approvals, etc. must all be submitted to the
Main Contractor only.
If the Subcontractor fails to conform to the above provisions of the Subcontract, the Contractor may
require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed) any key personnel or any other person

employed on the Site or Subcontract Works, including the Subcontractor's Representative if applicable
Pursuant to sub-clause 14.9.3 of the aforementioned Conditions of subcontract.
Moreover, we hereby hold the Subcontractor liable for any cost and/or time impact that is incurred by
the Main Contractor due to these direct communications of the Subcontractor with the
Employer/E.ngineer.
Please be guided accordingly
Yours faithfully
Subject Lack of Mosart Productivity and Resources
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to Mosart's performance and we remind the Contractor that it is fully
responsible for the management of its Subcontractors. The Jack of Mosart's resources being
encountered across the MTB Building, is noticeable and is affecting the progress of the Works.
The Contractor has advised that Mosart's productivity will start to benefrt: when open areas are
provided
to them and as such Mosart have never really been able to suitably progress due to constrained access
to areas as managed by the Contractor. Currently, numerous large access areas are available across the
whole building for Mosart to progress their works and they are unable to furnish the resources required
to progress these urgent works.
It is noted that your Subcontractor to date has been unable to progress the works to an acceptable
manner nor provided the level of resources that are commensurate with the open work fronts. This in
turn resulted in delays to the installation of screed and stone work.
Please advise the actions that the Contractor is undertaking to clear any outstanding issues with the
works being described above in order to meet the project requirements. Should you continue to fail
your
deliverables with respect to these works, the Contractor shall submit its plan to backfill the
requirements
of the screed and stone package.
We further remind the Contractor of its obligations and responsibilities under Clause 12.9
Subcontracting.
Pa
Subject: Warning to Project Manager - Final Warning
Dear Sir,
We have ascertained that your project manager has failed to carry out her responsibilities and duties in
accordance with the Project Requirements in a timely manner.
It has been witnessed that your project manager Ms Antel lliovits has failed to following site activities
closely and

dealing with our site management very unprofessionally. Moreover, she keeps misleading our team and
giving
false reports and information to obscure her failures.
Aforementioned failures by your project manager cause delays to achievement of the critical milestone
dates.
Therefore, we hereby issue a warning letter in pursuant to the Clause 14.9.3 that of the Subcontractor
Agreement;
'The Contractor may require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed} any key personnel
or any other
person employed on the Site or Subcontract Works, including the Subcontractor's Representative if
applicable, who
in the reasonable opinion of the Contractor:
(a) persists in any misconduct or lack of care
(b) carries out duties incompetently or negligently
(c) fails to conform with any provisions of the Subcontract; or
(d) persists in any conduct which is prejudicial to safety, health or the protection of the Environment"
Our instruction is issued according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 12.12 where the
Subcontractor is required to cooperate with the Contractor to ensure the coordination including
timeframes,
programmes and schedules for the completion of the Subcontract Works. As she informed previously,
please take
immediate actions to fix the problems on the site not later than 2 weeks. Failing such, we shall
determine a
solution to overcome the above issue at your own cost which we will inform you in due course include
the removal
of the responsible staff
Subject: Notice of Delay- Screed and Stone Installation Progress at CP
Dear Sir,
We refer to above mentioned subject matter and record your persistent failure in completion of
aforesaid works in a timely manner as required and our concern over ongoing Site delays caused by you
due to low progress on site activities.
We record that, your progress of stone installation and screed works shall not achieve the targeted and
planned
quantum of installations. We note that your lack of progress is mainly grounded to your improper
supervision from
your part on the works. Although total area of 16,546 m2 at CP L3.0 is released for screed, only 10,810
m2 is
casted and only 967m2 of stone installation is completed as of August 19, 2017.
In the light of above, you are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 16.6.1,

if you fail to comply with approved Subcontract Programme, you shall indemnify and hold us harmless
against all
damages, costs losses and expenses incurred by us in connection of your delays. Moreover, Subcontract
Clause
16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to comply with Clause 16.2, the Subcontractor shaJJ,
subject to
Clause 10.3, pay delay damages to the Contractor for this default." Therefore, you are required to take
immediate
action to recover from the current delay and achieve the planned progress as earliest.
This is for your utmost attention and further necessary action.
Subject: HSE Contravention: Working without PPE
Dear Sir,
I Reply Required: ¥5 I No I
It has been observed that below mentioned employees were found working without mandatory PPE
on project site.
Name Ref No Title Incident Place Date & Time
This act is a failure towards the compliance of Project procedures and contrary to the project
expectations and standards.
Therefore, consider this letter as Final Warning, violator to attend re-induction, further repetition
penalty will be imposed to the violator under contractual "HSE Violation Schedule Appendix L Serial
#11".
This is for your reference and records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Inadequate Progress of Mechanical Works within Gatehouses - Back of House & Front of House
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/004041 dated 2ih October 2016 we are once
compelled to
place on record that despite the Project being at a critical stage, we remain increasingly concerned with
regards to
the inadequate rate of progress of your Mechanical Works (Contracted Scope) within the
aforementioned areas.
Our concerns are specifically aimed at the installation of the following equipment and that of the related
activities
(ducts, firefighting pipes, supply/return chilled water pipes, etc.) of which the photographic evidence
(58nr)
attached clearly demonstrates.
A. Inadequate Rate of Progress to Mechanical Work in Pl & P2 GHs Plant rooms
Basement & Level 1.0 (see attached photos)

Ingress of AHU unit in Level Ll.O, and related ducts and chilled water pipe works
Ingress of Pre-action unit in Basement (in Level Ll.O for Type F GHs) and related Firefighting pipe works
Ingress of BCU unit and related chilled water pipe works
B. Delay in Material Delivery
Pre-action Units not yet delivered to site (9 nos.)
C. Others
Lack of progress in the Cutting of PCA Ducts in GHs Mechanical Room (Basement)
Lack of progress in Puddle Flange Installation for the Lifting Stations
Lack of progress in the insta llation of Firehouse Real Cabinet (FHC) in Gate Houses' Entrance (No sample
approved, no approved mock-up, no material delivered to site)
Accordingly you are instructed to provide an Action Plan (with Completion Dates) to mitigate the delays
in strict
accordance with that of Clause 16.4.1, bearing in mind that the continuing delay in the completion of
abovementioned mechanical equipment and Works. Your inadequate rate of progress has and continues
to have
a detrimental impact to the Pre-commissioning & Final commissioning activities, and t he subsequent
delay to the
succeeding Civi l work activiti es (final paint, Snagging and De-snagging, etc.). As previously stated within
a plethora of correspondences, you have a clear contractual obligation to mitigate
delays of which we find you completely culpable, in this instance we would make reference to that of
Clause 16.4
(Recovery of Delays) of your Subcontract Agreement. For ease of reference;
Clause 16.4.1 - Recovery of Delays
If, at any time:
(a) The Contractor considers (acting reasonably) that actual progress is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract Time for Completion;
(b) Progress has fallen {or will fall) behind the Subcontract Programme; and/or
(c) The Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractors
Programme or other parts of the Contract Works,
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme), a
revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out
in Clause
16.3 (Subcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor
proposes to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for
Completion. These
revised methods may include increases in the working hours and/or in the numbers of Subcontractor's
Personnel
and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised
Subcontract

Programme and supporting report within seven (7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor
may,
acting reasonably, if it considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate,
instruct the
Subcontractor to make such amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and
supporting
report as it considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such
amendments and/or modifications.'
The recovery programme shall clearly detail as a minimum how you intend to complete the remaining
Gate houses
in (P1 & P2), in order to mitigate further delays to the Contract Finishing Programme.
All delays and cost incurred will be for your account with recovery of the same in strict accordance with
that of
Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) of the agreed Subcontract Agreement between us.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will carry out the necessary as a matter of
urgency. If
you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: None-Availability of Work front-PCA Duct
Dear Sir,
Further to receipt of the aforementioned letters pertaining to alleged unavailability of work fronts
associated with
Pre-Conditioned Air Ductwork, we would respond as follows.
As per letter reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/02160 dated 81
h March 2016, you have alleged that Gate House 28 is still
pending due to lack of excavation. We refute such an allegation in its entirety and would clarify for the
record that
you have been working within this area for over 2 months and yet at time of writing you have failed to
supply and
install the required puddle fl(!nges. This in turn is significantly delaying the critical works associated with
the closure
of wall, water proofing and backfilling.
We would also place on record that Gatehouse 35 Works are still in progress and an approved WIR has
still not been
issued. On the basis of this we find your statement that you don't have a work front completely spurious
and
baseless. Your continuous failure in this regard has and continues to result in idle time being incurred by
us with

regards to resources and that of associated plant and equipment allocated for backfilling of the PCA
Works.
Furthermore, Gate House 4 PCA excavation is pending due to the further delays associated with Sewer
connections
which form an integral part of your contracted works. The current situation of your unapproved
installations has
resulted in yet further idle time being incurred by us, including that of associated plant and equipment.
It remains the your responsibility to plan your resources accordingly for the various activities under your
scope
however, below are the expected dates for the completion of civil Works to Gatehouses 3, 4, 37, 19 and
20.
We hold you completely culpable for all delays associated with this element of the works and the
repercussions that the same will have on follow on trades and/or activities. In this instance we cite that
of Clause 16.4.1 (recovery of delays) for ease of reference
Clause 16.4.1 - Recovery of Delays
If, at any time:
(a) The Contractor considers (acting reasonably} that actual progress Is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract Time for Completion:
(b) Progress has fallen for will faiiJ behind the Subcontract Programme: and/or
(c) The Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractors
Programme or other parts of the Contract Works,
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme}, a
revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out
In Clause
16.3 (SUbcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor
proposes to adopt In order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for
Completion. These
revised methods may Include Increases in the working hours and/or In the numbers of Subcontractor's
Personnel
and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised
Subcontract
Programme and supporting report within seven {7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor
may act reasonably. if It considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be Insufficient or Inappropriate,
Instruct the
Subcontractor to make such amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and
supporting report as It considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply
with any such amendments and/or modifications.'
Failure to recover delays which are completely of your own making will result in all costs of the same
such as (but not limited to) Idle workforce (Labour), plant and equipment being levied against your
account in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims). Costs so far incurred by us in

this regard will be forwarded to you under cover of separate letter, with the same being recovered
against your next payment certificate.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will carry out the necessary as a matter of
urgency. If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact
the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Lack Of Progress and Work front Availability
Dear Sir,
In response to your referenced letter "MMM/17/MTB/0223" dated 23 October 2017 and other
referenced letters listed above, you have alleged that you have no sufficient work front to enable you to
maintain your manpower and equipment fully operative for screed works.
We refute your allegations in its entirety and would clarify for the record that you have more than
10,000 m2 available work front for screed works in CP Level 2 and 3. Please refer to the attached
drawings for CP Level 2.0 and 3.0 which indicate the available work fronts for screed works. Additionally,
we are once compelled to place on record that, despite the Project being at a critical stage, we remain
increasingly concerned with regards to the inadequate rate of progress of your stone installation works
within aforementioned areas.
On the basis of above, we find your statement of the idle manpower and your equipment is spurious
and baseless. You have sufficient screed work-front which is adequate for one month ahead, in addition
to this, you have more than 15,000 m2 work-front for stone installation. Therefore, for any kind of idle
manpower and equipment claim or/and any kind of delays due to your insufficient manpower, we hold
you completely culpable associated with this element of the works. Accordingly, you are instructed to
provide an Action Plan to mitigate the delays strictly in accordance with Clause 16.4.1. As previously
stated within a plethora of correspondences, your contractual obligation to mitigate delays of which we
find you culpable.
We trust aforementioned information and instructions are self-explanatory and you will carry out the
necessary actions as a matter of urgency. Please be noted that, any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses
as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities shall be solely your responsibility.
Yours faithfully,
Subject RE: Limited Work Front for Finishing and Handing Over
Dear Sir,
Further to the Subcontractor's letter reference (1), the Contractor wishes to clarify as follows:
1. In respect of the Subcontractor's alleged delays in obtaining the acceptance certificates, the
Contractor notes that these delays may be attributable to the incomplete handing-over deliverables
made by the Subcontractor. Accordingly, and as advised via the Contractor's letter reference (2), the
Subcontractor is requested to attend the close-out coordination meeting which is the right forum to
address these topics.

2. In relation to the production of the portable planters being interrupted by the lack of site accessibility,
the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor was instructed in May 2017 to commence the delivery of
portable planters (PS-1.0) to Site; however, the Subcontractor did not proceed accordingly because it
did not have sufficient resources in its factories to assemble the two halves of the portable planters. The
Contractor refutes therefore that the delays in the progress of the portable planters' works result from a
site accessibility issue; these de lays are attributable to the lack of manufacturing capacity of the
Subcontractor.
In addition to the above, the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has provided no details in respect
of the additional cost and/or time incurred.
Notwithstanding this, should the Subcontractor still intend to claim compensation from the Contractor
visa- vis the above described events, the Contractor reminds the Subcontractor of his obligation to
submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28) days from the date of the events which allegedly
gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of sub-clause 27.1.5. Furthermore, the
Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in accordance with sub-clause 27.2.1
within twenty-one (21) days in order to enable the Contractor to review any entitlement the
Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost.
The Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the above stated contractual
obligations as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's
submitted delaying events.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Re: Re: Delay Notice - Fabrication and Release of Front Facade Steelwork to Other
Dear Sir,
We write further to our referenced correspondence (1) above, in which we notified you of your ongoing
delays to the erection and release of the Front Facade steel work to other trades. You have challenged
this in your correspondence referenced (2) above and attempted to present a number of excuses to
which we respond further to as follows.
We record that you have structured your reply to furnish excuses to the delay in erecting the Front
Facade while the notice were clearly stating;
"P1N-P1S-P2N-P2S-P4N-P4S-P3 Partially Released with various comments from Facade Subcontractor.
Removal of scaffolding from level 0 to level 2 is ongoing at slow rate of progress"
Clearly, the notice were intended to warn you of the incomplete nature of your works and the slow rate
to which the handover process is being carried out, instead you decided to respond by bring about the
excuses for the erection of the works. Notwithstanding your rational for evading responding to the exact
concerns relayed in our notice, we offer the following response to your excuses while upholding our
notice in its entirety.
Your argument on the background to our notice
You have stated that, our notice were based on a document under heading "Erection and release of
Retail Cabin Steelwork'' [sic], which is incorrect as the notice were served to you under the heading
"Front Facade" and not "Retail Cabin" !
Your argument on the basis behind the "Must Complete Dates" contained in our notice

You identified that, you were "unaware" of the method that we have adopted to arrive at the "must
complete" dates. Although, it is evident, we further clarify that, we used the same durations planned in
your approved Rev 6 Program and added this duration to the date you actually started the works on site,
knowing that there were no further delays to that area afterwards.
EOT 7 Dates claimed to be the "excusable" date's to which you allege entitlement towards
You have made reference to your EOT7 submission, in which you have shown impacted installation
completion dates of 13th Nov 2016 and 23'd Nov 2016 for handing over to others, we consider these
dates to be incorrect and unsubstantiated due to the following reasons derived from your own
submitted claim: A) Your analysis includes driving activities to the erection of the Facade elements "
DBUCP40SDOSFA0102 Erection of FA-01-02, DBUCP40SDOSFA0105-Erection of FA-01-05, DBUCP40SDOSFA0103-Erection of FA01- 03 and , DBUCP40SDOSFA0106 Erection of FA-01-04" for being driven by the delivery to site and
hence fabrication activities with no excuse or substantiation given in the same EOT claim as to why did
these delivery or fabrication activities took longer to complete than the planned durations, which
further solidifies our notice notion to "Delays to the Fabrication .. ". We note that no delay events were
shown on the critical path to affect the fabrication process once started.
B) The EOT program also shows a second-tier delay activity under erection activities mentioned in point
A above, attribute delays to the erection of front facade elements to an activity named "DB-60
Abstrations
due to JV Crawler crane (To temporary towers to commence Front Facade)" [sic] this activity were
introduced by your selves as a delaying event with a duration of eighteen (18) Days and is shown to
stretch between 19th June 2016 and to be continuing to effect the works up until 20th October 2016 for
the EOT7 period cut off 30th September 2016 window. This is completely an inaccurate activity and if
we are to take your alleged facade completion date of September 2016 (as mentioned by in the same
letter L01621) into account then this activity should not have any of the effects purported in your
analysis.
C) Your approved baseline program and your claim program both allow for 1 (one) week [7 days]
between the completion of the installation of the facade elements and the handover to other trades, if
we are to take into consideration your own assertion that you have completed the front facade works
by September 2016 then you should have had completed the handover by early October at most which
obviously were unachieved by you. EOT7 Claim! Furnishes no excuse, and no substantiation to why did it
took more than 1 week for you to hand over to others.
This is evidence to the reason we sighted "Delays in Handing Over" in our notice (Ref 001362), which
you seem to object to without any plain consideration to the information you relayed to us in your own
claims.
D) The analysis provided inaccurate as-built progress despite the use of accurate as-built data being an
imperative requirement to the application of correct Time impact Analysis. It is clear that the program
used by you to demonstrate your EOT claim does not reflect the accurate as-built status. (e.g. the
alleged completion of facade by September 2016)
E) Your analysis also includes the suspension of works due to the regrettable accident, involving one of
CSCEC's subcontractor's, which happened onsite on the 14th May 201§; to which works were suspended

pending your issuance of the formal investigation report of this incident which was issued to us on 3151
May 2016 through your letter CSC_TCAJV/MTB/NA/L01413, the works remained suspended till the date
you provided this report, another regrettable incident occurred on 22"d May 2016 and equally the
works were suspended until the 28th May 2016 (the date of which reports were compiled by the
correspondent party) and thus this event partially overlaps with the 14th May 2016 incident but it
occurred after it and it was resolved before it, rendering the 14th May 2016 incident as the lead event.
Despite the lead event occurring in May 2016, your programme shows the impact of this event as a
driving event -not a suspension event that ends in 17th Dec 2016 (Activity KGND01ALL2410), which is
"post the alleged impacted handover date!", we note that you have linked this event to the end of the
already wrong impacted installation events of the facade FA members to create an even more
exaggerated delaying effect. Not only are the delaying events exaggerated and the impact shown in the
wrong manner! Either way; We ascertain that any impact as a result of this event/incident is your
liability and risk and does not entitle you to an extension of time.
F) Your EOT 7 also includes a delay effect due the suspension of works due inclement weather in the
nine days between 6th March 2016 till 15th March 2016; however it is shown in your ana lysis as a
driving event that affected the facade structure between 23'd November 2016 unt il 5th Dec 2016
(Activity KGND01ALL2320) which is a date after the "impacted handover date!". We note that you have
linked this event to the end of the already inflated installation events. You have also failed to adhere to
the impact period as notified by you via your transmittals CSC TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01314 (Dated 141h
March 2016) and detailed via transmittal esc TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01323 (Dated 22"d March 2016). You have
also failed to allocate the exact affected element of the works and as such, as it stands in its current
form the method and dates which you elected to impact the inclement weather incident are both
unacceptable.
Excuses attributed to link bridges issues and RFI 401-12046, 12097
In your response you to cross-attribute the delays experienced in the finalization of the link bridges
location as an excuse to the facade work fabrication and handover. We ascertain that the impact of
these delays where limited to the strict locations of those bridges and where never a determinate factor
as to the fabrication nor the installation of the entire facade works and as such we can't accept such a
broad impact. Your EOT7 lists a few of Link-Bridge related
RFI without any realistic impact on the facade and your narratives lack any mention or substantiation to
the same.
You have also referenced the belated response to RFI-401-12046 and 12097 as causation to the delays in
the façade elements. We examined the aforementioned RFI's and their purposes were related to your
own operational proposals and not in a form of a change imposed by the Employer/Engineer, for
instance RFI 12046 proposes a different method to erect beams and RFI 12097 seeks to alter material's.
There is no ground to attribute delays towards these RFI, and the onus to prove entitlement - if anyremains with you.
Excuses attributed to belated instruction related to RFI/0401/1190
We examined the aforementioned RFI's and we found that it is not related to your works or your scope
of works, or the subject of this notice or correspondence.
Your alleged status of handover of the facade to M/S Jangho (Facade subcontractor)

You have included a table to which you allege that you have handed over the facade grid lines as
following In addition to the unambiguous rational as to the delays between the alleged erection
completion and release dates, we reiterate that the works you have passed to the facade subcontractor
were neither in an accurate nor in a complete state, which would not constitute a "Handover" in the
sense that the subcontractor could not commence his works as prescribed, this is very evident from the
numerous documented correspondences -which you are fully aware of, and nor recently made aware of
as you contend- that details serious issues in the quality, alignment and other concerns in the "handed
over" works (We attach a sample of these correspondences in Attachment 1)
Statements on the behaviour of the Structural Steel and reference to unrelated documents
In your response to the issue raised on concerns/ comment made by the facade subcontractor, you
stated "Albeit the behaviour of structural steel after removal of temporary was not envisaged properly
by the engineer, in addition that these are within our responsibility and obligations*"verbatim, and then
you make a reference to a transaction (CSC_TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01194].
Despite such blatant statements to which you blame design flaws and the Engineer for the behaviour of
the erected structural steel we would emphasise that material compliance and erection tolerances are
within your scope of works, and if you are genuinely believe that the issues encountered by the facade
contractor can be attributed to the engineer's scope, we urge you to submit a detailed elaboration on
this case in a form of a report that would substantiate the contentions you made above, until the
provision of this substantiate you remain liable for these issues. With regards to the references you
made to your letter CSC_TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01194, titled "Subcontract payment Certificate No. 26" which
is unrelated to the statement or to the content of these correspondences!
Excuses drawn to FRI's TD-1950 and 1947 and Best Can Do Schedule
We couldn't correlate between the referenced RFI's and the issues raised in our correspondences.
As for the reference made to the best can do program, we find that it was issued post the notice date
and hence it can't be used as a reply to the argument, in addition to this you have also failed to follow
your own program and to date we are still facing issues related to corner facades, tension rods etc., and
other numerous outstanding issues
You also make reference to the non-receipt of payment for additional costs you allege are due to you. In
this regard, we remind you that, we have instructed you on numerous occasions through official
correspondences to comply with the Subcontract Clauses and to provide timely monthly-progress
records and to maintain detailed records of claims which includes full supporting (and cross referenced)
particulars of the basis of any claim you may raise, be it a request for an extension of the Subcontract
Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
order to substantiate any entitlement you may have to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or
additional cost.
We would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the lack of the required substantiation
from you (to date), we were able to obtain an on-account payment from the Employer against your
alleged additional costs and this payment has already been made to you. It is important to note that this
payment was no more than an on account payment. and you are required by contract to provide a fully
comprehensive cause and effect (and cross
referenced) impact program illustrating any concurrency, mitigation in addition to providing full
substantiation for the payment received on account, and any future payments in full accordance with

the provisions of your subcontract. Until such time where you comply with these requirements the
claimed costs final settlement remains to be determined.
In conclusion, we ascertain that your reply failed to assess, mitigate or respond to any of the concerns
we raised through our notice and you are reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/ or expenses
incurred by us and/or other Sub-contractors as a result of your failure to complete your Hotel/Office
Steelwork shall be solely your responsibility pursuant to your subcontract, in particular Clauses 12.12.4
and 16.6.1.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Notice of Backcharge- Fireproofing within Front Facade Steelwork
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter, please note, the fire proofing requirement within Front
Facade
Steelwork in your shop drawings was not properly detailed and coordinated to show the correct
sequence, coverage of fire proofing to ensure compliance with fire strategy report as well as the
authority requirements.
We also write to record your verbal confirmation that, you do not have enough resources to carry out
this work within the required timeframe.
Therefore, we shall arrange repair/application of required fire proofing of interface areas in line with
your latest fire proofing drawings and record all relevant charges.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you to back charge for the above works from your account and such
amount shall be deducted from your payment upon receipt of the repair/application cost from the
relevant Subcontractor.
This notice is issued according to Conditions of Subcontract Clauses 13.1.2 and 13.9.1 13.1.2 The
Subcontractor shall also be responsible for ensuring that all Subcontractor's Documents are compliant,
consistent and compatible with Schedule 12 (Specification) and are free of errors, omissions,
ambiguities, inconsistencies, inadequacies or other defects.
13.9.1 If errors, omissions, ambiguities, inconsistencies, inadequacies or other defects are found in the
relevant Subcontractor's Documents listed in this clause 13, they and the Subcontract Works shall be
corrected at the Subcontractor's Cost, notwithstanding any consent or acceptance under this clause 13.
This is for your information and future reference.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Delay- Open Work Fronts for Electrical Activities in CSP area
Dear Sir,
We write in connection with the above subject and to notify you that we are alarmed regarding your
delays and lack of progress at site. It is evident to us that the root causes for the delayed works are due
to insufficient man power and lack of site supervision in CSP area although you have massive amount of
open work fronts. (Refer to Appendix-1)

We are extremely concerned with ANEL's apparent continued inability to proceed with the following
works at certain locations:'in this instance, you are instructed to take such steps (i.e. allocating adequate
manpower to the available open works fronts) to improve your progress, at no additional cost to us, and
advise your actions as a matter of urgency. The below table indicates the actual manpower distribution
in the CSP area between month of May 2017 and month of July 2017 on a level basis which was
reported during the DART meeting. It is clear from the above table, 38% of manpower has been reduced
during the past 3 months. We record that your action to reduce the manpower at this time of the
project is totally unacceptable as it has caused further irrecoverable delays to the project.
The wordings of Sub-Clause 16.5.3 (b) is clear in respect of ANEL's 'express' responsibility to mitigate the
delays and the consequence if it fails to do so. We urge you to start taking mitigation measures to
recover your own delays. Failure to do so, the related delays measured during the periods where you
have not allocated adequate manpower will be deemed as Subcontractor culpable delays. ·
Notwithstanding the above, you are hereby directed to demonstrate the actions and recovery measures
required to be implemented by ANEL to mitigate the current shortfalls within 7 days from the receipt of
this letter.
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities shall be solely your
responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12, 16.6 and 10.3.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Additional ACP Cladding at Fa!;ade & Gypsum Interface at PrD Mezzanine
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of the Subcontractor's notice of claim reference (1} in respect of the
Engineer's response to request for information (RFis) nos. (2} and (3}. Firstly, it is noted that the
Engineer's responses to the RFis referred by the Subcontractor, (2} and (3}, were received in June 2016
and July 2015 respectively, i.e. it has taken the Subcontractor two and a half years to raise a notice in
respect of the additional works proposed within these RFis.
The Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor that it is obliged, pursuant to Sub-Clause
27.1.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract, to give a timely notification to the Contractor if it considered
itself to be 'entitled to any reimbursement of additional Costs incurred, an adjustment to the
Subcontract Price and/or any other costs or damages, under any provision of the Subcontract or
otherwise'. The Subcontractor not only failed to give notice within 21 days but it also significantly
exceeded such period. In addition to the Subcontractor's failure to comply with its notification
obligations, the Subcontractor also failed to comply with the other provisions of Sub-Clause 27.1;
including keeping and promptly submitting contemporary records (Sub-Clause 27.1.4}, submission of
fully detailed interim claims at monthly intervals (Sub-Clause 27.1.5} etc. As a consequence, the
Contractor may have been barred from any entitlement under the Contract and prevented from
obtaining additional payment and/or an extension to the Time for Completion in respect of this
Employer's related event.

Notwithstanding the above, the Subcontractor's letter (1} has been forwarded to the Engineer thus
requesting its instruction to proceed. Meanwhile, the Subcontractor is requested to submit its
commercial proposal for the implementation of a Variation for onward submission to the Engineer I
Employer without further delay.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: OTIS's ongoing lack of performance
Dear Sir,
The Contractor and its Subcontractor has noted and addressed the contents and concerns raised in
Engineer's letters (1-3).
The Contractor and Subcontractor have put in place mitigation measures to address these concerns. The
mitigation measures include but are not limited to the following:
An additional Construction Manager has joined the Subcontractor's workforce on 7 February 2018;
An additional Quality Control inspector has joined on 30 January 2018;
The Subcontractor's construction team has mobilised to the site offices;
The Subcontractor and its subcontractors have increased its daily working hours by two hours;
Three additional adjustors have joined, with three more expected to join in March 2018; and
The Contractor has also supplied its labour {22 numbers) to the Subcontractor for cleaning, logistical
and preparatory purposes. This is to ensure that the Subcontractor's technicians are utilising their
time as efficiently as possible.
The Contractor is confident that the mitigation measures put in place will bear positive results. The
Contractor assures all Parties that the Contractor is using all reasonable endeavours to complete the
Works by the accelerated target completion date.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: C-504- CTM010.CV0024: BHS Cable Trunking Damaged -Claim Notice
Dear Sir,
We hereby acknowledge receipt of your above referenced notice for "CTM010.CV0024: BHS Cable
Trunking Damaged".
It is not evident from the photo furnished what damage was incurred nor does the report establish as to
why the Contractor would be liable. Should the you wish this to be considered further please furnish a
detailed report providing full details of the incurred damage for assessment and evidence the Works had
been completed and accepted.
Additionally, we remind you of your obligation to corroborate your compliance with Schedule 0 Scope of
Subcontract Works sub-clause 4.2.37 "to allow for providing adequate protection to adjacent finishes,
works in progress and completed works until such a time as the follow on trade has covered same,
Maintain/adjust/replace as required/directed, Remove upon completion/ instruction. Allow to rectify
damage caused by others due to failure to comply with this requirement."
Given that the notice fails to either establish any damage or liability, we are presently unable to see any

merit to your claim.
Yours faithfully,
Stuart Matthews
Subject Increase in Rev-0 Shop Drawings Due to the Engineer's Comments on SCR Room's
Dear Sir,
We refer to your correspondence referenced as (1) above in relation to shop drawing 401-BD-T-14-GE0.00-TW-SD-123 Rev.01 and 401-BD-T-14-GE-0.00-TW-SD-123 Rev.01 and note the Engineer's
comments were returned to the Contractor on the 12 November 2017.
The Engineer notes the provided comments resulted from the Contractor's non-compliance since it
only submitted a typical backbone rack view and fiber connection details which is insufficient due to
the SCR's not being typical.
Furthermore, the Engineer notes it has been 80 days since the comments were received by the
Contractor on the 12 November 2017 which should have provided sufficient time to produce and
submit the required shop drawings to date.
Any delays which may incur as a result of the Contractor's inaction shall be solely attributable to the
Contractor.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Extension of Consulting Services
Dear Sir,
We refer to the above and the scope defined for Scope of Services, indicated in your referred letter.
We are pleased to extend the validity duration of the Professional Service Agreement for your services
until 31-12-2018.
All terms, conditions and rates of the aforesaid Professional Service Agreement shall apply to this
Extension of Services.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000534 dated 28th February
2018 received on 4th March 2018.
Mosart Marble & Mosaic International S.A.L have suffered additional costs and damages as a result
of the poor performance of M/S Plus Pa inting (Screed Works Subcontractor). We enclose a copy of
our letter reference MMM/16/PPW/007 dated 27th March 2016 in support of this statement.

We shall furnish the detailed particulars of our counter claim to M/S Plus Paint for their
agreement/settlement, failing which we shall pursue our full contractual and legal rights pursuant
to the Subcontract Agreement we have with M/S Plus Paints. In the meantime any failure to settle
amounts due on our account as a result of the poor performance of M/S Plus Paints will also be
levied against the Subcontractor as further damages arising directly from their breach of our
Subcontract Agreement with M/S Plus Paints.
You are reminded that withholding a valid payment entitlement for works done under our contract
constitutes a breach of contract, giving rise to a cause of action for damages and other remedies. In
the event that we suffer such damages and additional costs as a result of the failure of the TCAJV to
make payment with respect to this issue, and such sums are not recoverable from our
Subcontractor, we shall seek to recover the same, plus interest and damages from the TCAJV.
Subject:Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We have been informed directly by your lower tier subcontractor M/S “Plus Painting” (Screed Works
subcontractor) pertaining to a dispute with you, regarding a significant unpaid amount in regards to
their work executed on your behalf. We have been advised that the outstanding disputed net amount is
1,127,825.72 AED.
Please be informed that this dispute does not concern TCAJV from a contractual perspective,
nonetheless, we do have a duty of care in regards to Sub-Subcontractor Payments. In this instance, with
reference to Clause 21.3 of the Subcontract Agreement between the Parties, states that:
21.3.1 The Subcontractor shall in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant
subcontracts pass on to the relevant Sub-subcontractors and/or suppliers all payments received from
the Contractor in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to such Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers.
21.3.2 Where the Subcontractor determines that monies should be withheld and/or deducted from a
Sub-subcontractor and/or supplier's account, the Subcontractor shall not claim and shall not be entitled
to payment of the amount of the approved withholding and/or deduction until such time as the
Subcontractor determines payments to the relevant Sub-subcontractor and/or supplier should be
resumed.
21.3.3 Before issuing any Interim Payment Certificate the Contractor and/or the Contractor may
demand from the Subcontractor reasonable evidence that all previous amounts paid to the
Subcontractor in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers (less any retentions) have been paid by the Subcontractor. If the Contractor has not
received such reasonable evidence within three (3) Days of such a request, the Contractor may (at its
sole discretion) either:
(a)
withhold such amounts from any further payment due to the Subcontractor; or

(b)
pay such amount (or any part of such amount) directly to the relevant Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers on behalf of the Subcontractor and recover such amount from the Subcontractor by
deducting and setting-off such amount from any future payment due to the Subcontractor.
In light of the aforementioned, we believe the only option available, is that detailed under Clause 21.3.3
(a). You are therefore instructed to commence meaningful dialogue with your Subcontractor M/S Plus
Painting to bring this issue to a swift and amicable conclusion. In this regard, we expect this dispute to
be resolved immediately; failure to provide any solution will result in the direct withholding of the
outstanding balance in accordance with the aforementioned Clauses.
Furthermore, you are required to issue any substantiated documents regarding the outstanding
payment of M/S Plus Painting if there is any. Additionally, you are to issue with each monthly payment
application going forward a Financial Disclosure Schedule (FDS).
This is for your utmost attention and further necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Deducted Doors from WMS Scope and Failure to Submit Substantiation for
Interim Payment Application (IPA)
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your email dated 1 February 2018 by Mr.
Ahmad Adli, enclosed herewith, stating that you are not accepting the backcharges sent via letter
reference (3), we inform you that our position remains the same as per the content of our said letter.
After reviewing all of the relevant email correspondence concerning this matter, it is evidenced that you
were instructed multiple times to proceed with the fabrication but you failed to do so. Moreover, your
representative from M/S Assent on an email dated 12 October 2017 stated that you stopped the
fabrication.
In addition to the above, you submitted letter reference (5) stating your lack of manpower due to the
fact that your manpower was used in full capacity for the works. Nevertheless, we have assisted you by
deploying all required resources to ensure the completion of the works. In addition, even though the
procurement of the Waste Chute Materials is being dealt separately from this letter, however, it is
noted that you have failed to comply with your Contractual Obligations to procure the materials under
LoA reference (1) and as per your letter reference (4) requested us to proceed with the procurement of
most of your materials in order to avoid any delays, which we have taken the lead accordingly .
As a result of the above and after multiple requests sent to you to proceed with the works as stated
above, wherein you failed to adhere, we had no choice but to proceed with the fabrication of the door
frames and backcharge you accordingly.
Additionally, the comment made on your email dated 1 February 2018, that the doors have been
already delivered on site, is disregarded due to the fact that you have been requested several times to

submit signed delivery notes for the alleged delivery, but you failed to do so. It is noted that to date
there is no evidence of delivery for the doors listed on our letter reference (3). We hereby inform you
that we are ready to investigate whether the said doors have been delivered only upon receipt of the
signed delivery notes accordingly.
Moreover, further to the attached email correspondence, where you are depicting that it is a lengthy
procedure to acquire the necessary signatures from the site for the completed works, please note that
we do not accept the said statement and inform you that it has no contractual basis. It is noted that
such statements do not act in good faith towards your Contractual obligations and shall be avoided.
Consequently, you are instructed to take all necessary measures to provide all evidence, that the works
have been completed as per the Specifications and in accordance but not limited to Clause 15.2.1 (b)
[Inspection].
Furthermore, it is noted that Interim Payment Applications (IPAs) have not been submitted timeously as
per the conditions of the Subcontract Agreement. You are hereby notified that pursuant to Schedule 11
Clause 3.2 (a) [Monthly progress payment] “the Sub-Contractor shall submit its invoice on the 25th day
of each month with full supporting substantiation and details as required by the Contractor”.
Moreover, in view of the matter discussed regarding the IPA’s and in line with the Subcontract Terms
and Conditions comprised in the Tender Documents under the LoA (referenced 1 above), Appendix B,
Subcontract Conditions Clause 3 [Application for Interim Payments] states that all Applications shall be
submitted “together with supporting documents which shall include the relevant report on progress in
accordance with clause 12.27 (Progress Reports) (the Statement)”. It is observed that your submitted
IPAs are not in an acceptable manner and not in line with the Conditions of the Subcontract referred
herein. Consequently, you are instructed to comply with your contractual obligations and submit your
IPAs in a timely and an acceptable manner. Furthermore, Clause 3 states the following:
3.4 “The Subcontractor shall submit with each Statement, full supporting documentation so that the
Contractor can readily understand and verify the sums claimed”.
3.5 “The Subcontractor shall provide the Contractor with whatever supplemental information and
analysis it may reasonably require in order to fully understand and verify the sums due to the
Subcontractor”.
In view of the above, you are instructed as per Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to include in
your submissions all required documentation, to enable us to proceed with the evaluation of your
Applications accordingly.
Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.

Yours faithfully,
Subject :
Notice of Back charge – CI/00617-Relocation of Sprinkler riser in FF – 5.12A, Fire Zone
15, L2.0 to L4.0 (Wrapper) to avoid clashing with Cloisall’s Wall Cladding
Dear Sir,
With reference to CI/00617 (2) above, we hereby notify you that due to your insufficient coordination
and monitoring of your Subcontract Works, has led M/S PCEJV to relocate the Sprinkler riser in FF –
5.12A, Fire Zone 15, L2.0 to L4.0 (Wrapper) to avoid clashing with M/S Cloisall’s Wall Cladding.
We hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the reinstatement cost and all other associated
cost from your account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s
Claims).
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors), whereby you are liable to the Contractor for any
claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs arising out of your failure
to perform the obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and future reference.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject Clause 27.1.5 (a) - Interim Particulars of the Basis of Claim - Delay Notice No. 990 Movement in Side Pavilion Primary Steel Members - Failure to Address Design Errors
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted the Interim
Particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 990 issued via (3).
We remind the Contractor that pursuant to Clause 1.3, A1 of Section 055000 and Clause 1.3, A1 Section
066116 of the Specifications the Contractor is responsible for the design of the connections and fixing
for metal fabrications as well as for solid surface fabrications and related elements, including interfaces
and coordination with work of adjoining trades in order to satisfy the performance requirements in
accordance with the Contract documents.
Furthermore, we record that to date, the Contractor has not evidenced its allegation with regards to the
alleged design error and has not provided any substantiation to this effect.
Notwithstanding the Engineer's position that the Contractor has no entitlement in relation to this Claim,
we also record that the Contractor in correspondence (1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged
delay to its programme and furthermore has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements (Clause

1.3.7). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis as required under Clause
27 .2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
In addition to the above, the Contractor has failed to comply with the provisions of Clause 27.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract to submit full supporting particulars of the basis of the claim.
In light of the above, we consider that the Contractor has not substantiated any entitlement to an
Extension to the Time for Completion.

Subject :Renewal of Performance Bond

Dear Sir,
We write with regards to your Performance Bond (Guarantee No: PEBDUB043754), noting the expiration
of its validity on 27th February 2018.
Please renew your Performance Bond as per the following details,
•
Substantial Completion: 30th June 2019
•
Defect Liability Period (DLP): 21 Months
•
Performance Certificate will be issued within forty-two (42) Days after the expiry date of the
Defect Liability Period, or as soon thereafter as the Subcontractor has fulfilled all of its obligations under
the Subcontract, including the completion of any work which was outstanding or required rectification
on the date stated in a Taking Over Certificate and/or the remedying and retesting of any defects,
deficiencies and/or damage notified by the Contractor pursuant to clause 19.1.2.
Therefore, your Performance Bond should be extended until the date which the Contractor received the
Performance Certificate.
This is for your immediate action and attention.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:Re: Notification of Back Charge-Temporary Power Connections to P3 & P4
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed letters received from M/s Anel referenced through (2) to (5)
and our letter reference (1) regarding the aforesaid subject. We regret to inform you that due to your
continual delays and your lack of performance have resulted to time delays which subsequently affected
other trades.

As discussed in our letter reference (1) your failure to deliver equipment bands, light boxes and glass
screens timeously, has resulted in the temporary termination of electrical works and subsequent
abortive works, in the subject areas performed by M/s ANEL.
In view of the above and in continuation to references (1) and (2) to (5) enclosed herewith, you are
notified that the abortive works as described in the enclosed letters, will be backcharged including all
associated amount(s) from your account pursuant to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Clause
12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors].
It is noted that your delays have been an ongoing issue which has been notified to you in numerous
correspondences. Moreover, we write to express our disappointment that the situation has not
improved despite our recurrent instructions to proceed with the works without any delay. You are
hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 [Commencement of
Subcontract Works] which states that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or Other Subcontractors.
Concluding the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the
construction of the Subcontract Works and coordinate with other Subcontractors to avoid further
progress issues.
Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.
This is for your information record and necessary action
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Response to the Engineer's Notification of Delay - Failure of Achieving ADDC
Dear Sir,
Approvals for FOBs for January 2018 Target
With reference to your letter reference: (1) above, regarding the failure of achieving ADDC approvals for
FDBs for January 2018 target, we respond as follows.
The Contractor notes the content and concerns of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. The
Contractor shall investigate and discuss with the relevant Subcontractor the delay to those activities.
Whilst the Contractor is making all sensible efforts and using reasonable endeavors to achieve the target
dates as per the rev 10.4 Programme, the Engineer should appreciate that, as the rev 10.4 Programme is
an accelerated Programme, it may not always, due to unforeseen circumstances, be feasible to achieve
some of the ambitious targets set therein.

The Contractor however assures the Engineer and the Employer that it continues to work in good faith
to meet the accelerated target completion date set for the completion of the Works.
We trust the above clarifies your concerns.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Variation Order No. 336- Engineer's Instruction No. 212- Bulletin 114- Update of
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 336 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-8614 dated 03 December 2017.
We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 336 on the basis that the following items are not included
and
shall be evaluated separately:
Additional costs associated with engineering, contract administration, project administration and site
supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Any non-security systems Works including those undertaken by the Passenger Boarding Bridge
Subcontractor;
Any necessary abortive work will be recorded and submitted separately.
The Variation was instigated by the Employer after Sub-Contract Signature and hence constitutes a
Variation in terms of the Contract. Consequently, our OH&P of 11.11% should apply to this Variation .
However, the Engineer determined the OH&P at 7%. To avoid hindering the progress of the appointed
ATRS Subcontractor and with the best interests of the project progress in mind, our signature of the
attached Variation Order is subject to resolving the difference in OH&P separately at a future date.
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Subject:List of Agreed RFVO’s - Finishes
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, please find attached list of agreed RFVO’s which have been
submitted in order for the Engineer to issue Variation Orders respectively. Please be informed that all
RFVO’s included in the enclosed list have been jointly assessed, reconciled and agreed since May 2013
up to December 2017, however, the fact remains that to date no Variation Order has been issued for the
listed RFVO’s.
In view of the above and due to the fact that the release of a Variation Order accordingly is long
overdue, pursuant to Contract Clauses 20.3.2 [Variation Procedure] and 11.4.1 [Determinations], we
pursue our contractual rights and kindly request your early determination and issuance of formal
Variation Orders correspondingly. Moreover, we kindly request that such determination and issuance is
within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.

We hereby request for your immediate and necessary action for the issuance of these Variation Orders.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject Notice of Default - Breach of Subcontract due to Arcade Retail Circulation Area Fit Out
Dear Sir;
Package (MEP) We kindly want to take your attention to the Breach of Subcontract due to Arcade Retail
Circulation Area Fit out Package (MEP). During Site visit we saw that other contractor (Cioisall Co. LLC)
started to work for Electrical Works at subject Retail Circulation Area work (Tenant Work).
In this juncture, we kindly remind you Subcontract Specification Section 013115, 1.5 Work Responsibility
Item C (page 3) in the attachment which clarifies that "to keep continuity within the MTB construction
phase, Tenant Contractors shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including Electrical
Subcontractor as based on unit rates from BOQ.
This is an entitlement of Subcontractor which is clarified at Subcontract therefore there is a clear breach
of Subcontract by not using Subcontractor for the subject area works.
In the light of above information and attachments, we kindly request compensation of all our costs and
loses as per 21.2.1 (Adjustment to the Subcontract Price) and 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claims). In order to
calculate the total loses and costs due to this breach of Subcontract, we kindly request the total BOQ
quantities of subject area works which shall be done by Subcontractor.
Subject: Briefing Pack Change Management Process
Dear Sir,
We are writing to advise that we are no longer able to accept any further Briefing Package instructions
due to conditions and circumstances that have become unsustainable:
1. Notwithstanding an agreement to assist the Employer with the Briefing Package Change Management
services on Cost plus basis Variation, and despite a) your verification of the Variation services having
been delivered and accepted, b) your agreement of Variation Orders and Time/Cost Records and c)
your certification of amounts as earned and due pursuant to the Payment terms under the Contract,
you arbitrarily deducted such monies in breach of Conditions of Contract Clause 4 and 11.1.3.
The action is your letter references (1) and (2) are not acceptable and constitute a breach of the
Employer's obligations under the Contract.
2. You failed to conclude the Briefing Package process according to the Engineer's and Employer's
obligations under the Contract and the Briefing Pack I Change Management Process. Despite the
agreement that the Employer is responsible for the design in the Sketches released pursuant to the
Briefing Package workshops, the Employer failed to fulfil the design responsibility component by
issuing the revised IFC Drawings in a timely manner.
To this date none of the Briefing Packs have been closed out. Refer to our closeout requests in letters
reference (3) through (7) which remain outstanding. The Employer shall remain responsible including

all consequences such as abortive works arising from any retrospective IFC Drawing changes. 3. The
briefing pack process was a voluntary process, not an Employer entitlement under the Contract.
Moreover, it was originally intended to be deployed over a six-month period to expedite the last of
remaining Employer Variations. However, the briefing package process has been abused by the
introduction of expanding scope of change which continues without abatement since commencement
in February of 2015 despite your continuous assurances to the contrary.
The ever increasing scope of change is disrupting our ability to plan, coordinate and execute complex
works and is .causing a drain on our (?nd Subcontractor) resqurces that were intended to be deployed
for the execution of the Works rather than rectification of underdeveloped Employer design changes.
4. We set out important notifications regarding the consequential effects of the Briefing Pack processes
and clearly established the conditions and qualifications with respect of the responsibilities and the
liabilities arising therefrom. These were most recently recorded in our letters references (10) and
(11).
Your failure to respond to the substantive matters set out in the aforementioned letters indicates a
refusal to acknowledge the substantial Employer liabilities arising therefrom and the deployment by
Employer of the necessary mitigations.
For the above cited reasons, please be advised that we are not able to take on any further Briefing
Package assistance services. Going forward, we expect that the Employer undertake their own
obligations
as required in the Contract for the preparation and issuance of fully developed revised Drawings (as
"Bulletins"). These should be prepared by duly authorized professionals for each of the relevant trades
to
fully express the extent and scope of the Employer's Variations. We for our part will undertake our
obligations to the limits set out in the Contract.
To ease the transition back to the change procedure under the Contract, we will continue to provide
BIM
support on a call-off basis and will continue to provide the briefing package assistance for only those
Briefing Packs on which substantial progress has been achieved. These Briefing Packs are listed in the
attached Schedule under "In-Progress BPs". However, we are not able to provide any assistance on
those
Briefing Packs listed under "Declined BPs" or any other Briefing Packs issued in the future.
Please be guided accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Submittal of Tenderer's Proposal for Departure & Arrival Pavilions, Icon Stores & Arcades Works
Dear Sir,
Please f ind enclosed the subcontract proposals received for the Departure & Arrival Pavilions, Icon
Stores & Arcades Works Package as listed below:
1. ALEC (Commercial & Technical Proposal}
2. Cloisall (Commercial & Technical Proposal}
3. DECO (Commercia l Proposal}

4. Regret letters/emails from other Bidders
Kindly note that the quotations received from the subcontractors currently exclude TCAJV preliminaries,
preambles and overhead and profit entitlements.
This is for your kind information.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject: Interim Variation Order
Dear Sir,
We refer to the below referenced RFVOs assigned to execute the works pursuant to Conditions of the
Subcontract sub-clause 20.1.1., for your information and record.
IV0-004: RFV0-754, 920, 921, 922, 923, 924,925, 1123, 1124 &1125.-SC/019 (Change Management)
These works have been evaluated in the interim for the lump sum valuation of AED 1,071,296 as per
sub-clause 2.1 of Amendment Agreement No.1. We shall update you about outstanding Change
Management approvals in line to the Engineers certification in due course. Please confirm your
acceptance of this Interim Variation Order by signing and stamping both copies of the Interim Variation
Order and returning the same to us immediately. One fully and duly executed Interim Variation Order
shall be provided to you as a confirmation to enable the incorporation of your Interim Payment and the
Subcontract Value Adjustment accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Recovery of Overhead, Profit and Attendance due to the Omission of Defined
Provisional Sum for Hotel Fit Out
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference (1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s). As
we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to
give to other contractors. (See references 2 and 5.) All of the counter arguments that you have made to
date fail as a matter of law.
First, you attempt to excuse your conduct by referring to the definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e.,
that a Variation includes "a) the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof". You
read this provision as entitling the Engineer to omit works, for whatever, without consequence. This is
wrong.
Every single commentary, and every court that has interpreted such language, has come to the
conclusion that "a provision giving the owner or his [engineer] a power to make omissions only
contemplates genuine omissions, that is, works which it is intended should not be carried out at a11".1
For example, in Carr v JA Berriman Pty Ltd, the contract contained a clause saying that: "The Architect
may in his absolute discretion, and from to time, issue .... written instructions or written directions ... in
regard to the ... omission ... of any work."'2 In holding that it was a breach of contract for the architect
to invoke this clause to omit works to give to other contractors, the High Court in Australia reasoned:3
The clause is a common and useful clause, the obvious purpose of which - so far as it is relevant to the
present case - is to enable the architect to direct additions to, or substitutions in, or omissions from, the

building as planned, which may turn out, in his opinion, to be desirable in the course of the performance
of the contract. The words quoted from it would authorise the architect (doubtless within certain limits,
which were discussed in R v Peto (1826) 1 Y & J 37; 48 E.R. 577 to direct that particular items of work
included in the plans and specifications shall not be carried out. But they do not, in my opinion,
authorise him to say that particular items so included shall be carried out not by the builder within
whom the contract is made but by some other builder or contractor. The words used do not, in their
natural meaning, extend so far, and a power in the architect to hand over at will any part of the contract
to another contractor would be a most unreasonable power, which very clear words would be required
to confer. (Emphasis added.) Similarly, in Gallagher v. Hirsh,4 the contract provided that: "Should the
[employer] at any time during the progress of the said building request any alteration, deviation,
additions or omissions from the said contract he shall be at liberty to do so,[ ... ]." In finding that the
employer breached the contract in omitting this work to award to another contractor, the Appellate
Division in New York State held that:
The words are, 'additions or omissions from the said contract,' evidently meaning additions t o or
omissions from the work to be done under said contract, which clearly negatives the idea that they were
intended to mean that the [employer] should have
the right to omit the work from the plaintiff's contract, in order to give the contract
to another to do the same thing. (Emphasis added.)
Thus, established law clearly holds that Clause 1.1 cannot be invoked to support the Engineer's position.
Indeed, this body of law is explicitly acknowledged in COC Clause 22.2.4, which the Engineer has refused
to
consider or address. (See reference 5 wherein the Contractor explained the significance of this
provision.)
As we have previously explained, Clause 22.2.4 would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided
the
Engineer the right to omit works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties
knew
how to expressly provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer
could
omit works for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be
entirely
redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1. Even more, the Engineer could avoid
the
Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission under
Clause
1.1. Thus, the Engineer's interpretation could not have been what the Parties intended .
Second, the Engineer cl aims that the definition of "Defined Provisional Sum" supports its position. The
Contract defines "Defined Provisional Sum" in Clause 1.1 to mean "a sum included in the Contract Price
...
for the execution of any part of the Works ... which sum may be used, in whole or in part, to not at all,
on

the instructions of the Engineer." As you have previously stated, this too means that the Engineer can
omit
such works, for whatever, without consequence.
The authorities are again in agreement that this language does not permit the Engineer to omit Defined
Provisional Sums in order to award that work to other contractors. To the contrary:
Provisional sum work has been treated as definitive and not contingent, so that its
omission under a power to vary, if intended to have the work done by another
Contractor, has been held to be outside the power and in breach of contract entitling
the Contractor to damages.5
For example, in Hydro Holdings, the contract included a provisional sum for a nominated subcontractor
but
the employer directly awarded the subcontract to another contractor. In holding that the employer's
omission of provisional sum work to reallocate to another contractor constituted a breach of contract,
the
Court held that: Under the terms of most contracts, an employer who exercises a power to omit work
must genuinely require the work not to be done at all, and cannot exercise such a
power with a view to having the work carried out by someone else.5
Similarly, in Amec Building Limited v Cadmus Investments Co Limited, the employer omitted work
relating to
a provisional sum and later awarded it to a third party. The court noted that the contract provided the
architect "the power ... in his sole discretion to withdraw any work from provisional sums for whatever
reason if he considers it in the best interests of the contract or the employer so to do." Despite this, the
court affirmed the award of lost profits for the omission of provisional sum work to give to another
contractor .7
It is therefore resoundingly clear that the Engineer's interpretation of the term "Defined Provisional
Sum"
does not support the Engineer's position.
Last, the Engineer attempts to rely upon BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 which states that "[t]he
Contractor
shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the value of any omitted works." First, this
clause is inapplicable because the Contractor is seeking damages for a breach of contract and not for an
omissions. As Emden's Commentary notes, "if an omission takes away work in order to have it carried
out by
another contractor, it seems unlikely this will be a variation, but will be a breach of contract."8 As such,
this
clause is not relevant and does not exculpate the Employer from paying the Contractor what is due as a
matter of law. In any event, for the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble
12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
***
The Engineer's letter is not only devoid of legal support, it is refuted by all legal sources that have
addressed

the language that the Engineer invokes to support its position.
Given this, the Contractor requests a meeting to discuss a path forward in resolving this dispute, and the
Contractor's related claim stated in Reference 5.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Recovery of Overhead & Profit and Attendance Due to the Omission of Defined Provisional Sum
for Hotel Fit Out
Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
We write in response to your letter reference (1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).
We have recently reiterated the basis of the Contractor's legal entitlement to damages for the improper
omission of works in letter reference (4) in relation to Beam Seating. The legal basis for the recovery of
omitted Defined Provisional Sum works is the same. In addition to the arguments that the Engineer
raised in relation to Beam Seating, the Engineer further references (1) contractual language defining the
term "Defined Provisional Sum" to claim
that the Engineer has the right omit such work, without the requirement to compensate the Contractor,
for whatever reasons including to award that work to other contractors. The contractual definitions
simply restate the generic definition of "provisional sum" as is recognised in the construction industry.
There is nothing in these definitions that permits the Engineer to violate principles of good-faith. Rather,
just like the definition of "Variation", these provisions only contemplate genuine omissions and not, ·as
in the case here, to omit works in order to award that work to other contractor(s). Indeed, it is very wellestablished that this language does not permit the Engineer to award such work to other contractors.1
The Engineer further states that "[t]here is no basis within the General Conditions of Contract for
compensating TCAJV on presumptions that they may make regarding the Employer's intent." It is
uncertain what is meant by this. The Defined Provisional Sum works at here are essential to the
completion of the Works. Therefore, if they have not been instructed to the Contactor, the
Engineer/Employer must instruct another contractor to execute these works.
The Engineer has failed to consider the true meaning of this language in considering the Contractor's
entitlement and, therefore, has not discharged its obligations under the Contract
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject: Compensation related to De-Scope of Beam Seating
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference {1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).
As we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to

give to other contractors1(Union Supreme Court Case No 226/JY28 (noting that abusive omissions of
works were considered a breach of contract) You attempt to excuse the Employer from this rule by
referring to the definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e ., that a Variation includes "a) the addition,
omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof' . It appears that you read this provision as
permitting the
Engineer to instruct the omission of work for whatever reason it sees fit, including to give to other
contractors. This interpretation is inconsistent with industry understandings of the language, which
considers that this clause only relates to genuine omissions, and not omissions in order for the Employer
to contract that work elsewhere.
We note that Clause 22.2.4 states that where the Employer descopes the Contractor's work for cause,
the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission. [.
. .]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time."
Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the right to omit
works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties knew how to expressly
provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer could omit works
for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be entirely
redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1; even more, the Engineer could avoid
the Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission
under Clause 1.1.
You also dispute the proper remedy for this breach. Under UAE law, at the very least, the remedy for
such a breach is the contractor's lost profits and lost overheads. Against this, you refer to BOQ, Schedule
6, Preamble 12 to claim that "[t]he Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads
on the value of any omitted works." For the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Contractor's Claim: Compensation for the Employer's breach of Contract
Dear Sir,
The Contractor, pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1.1 [Contractor's Claims] of the Conditions of Contract,
hereby submits a Contractor's claim for compensation due to a breach of Contract by the Employer.
The event or circumstance giving rise to the claim is as follows:
The Contractor refers to the Specification Section 013115 [Coordination with Tenant Areas] Article
1.5.(C), which states that: "To keep continuity within the MTB Construction Phase, the Tenant

Contractors shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including but not limited to; all Systems {IT,
PA, Security and etc.}, Electrical, Plumbing, HVAC, and Waterproofing as based on unit rates from the
BOQ. These various subcontractors shall be directly contracted to the respective Tenant Contractors"
(emphasis added). The Contractor has been notified by our Electrical Subcontractor, through its letter
reference: (1) above, that the electrical installation in the arcade retail circulation area was NOT carried
out by our Electrical Subcontractor. We consider this as a breach of Specification Section 013115, and as
such a clear breach of Contract by the Employer.
In view of this breach, the Contractor hereby submits our claim for compensation, which is based on the
Contractor's lost profits and lost overhead, which has been calculated based on unit rates in the BOQ
and the quantities as per our Electrical Subcontractor's proposal to carry out the electrical installation in
the arcade retail circulation area.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Schedule of OHP% & Manpower Supply Rates for Back Charge Account
Dear Sir,
In line with our support to all the Subcontractors who may require our assistance for supplying of
labours, materials, plants, tools, equipment or any facilities in connection with their respective Scope of
Works, please be informed the Over Head and Profit (OHP) % and Manpower Supply Rates shall be
applicable as shown in the enclosed schedule.
In addition, please be advised in the event that we have carried out the works on your behalf due to
your failure to perform any part of your Scope of Works, the above OHP% shall be deemed applicable
and the same will be incorporated in your back charge account accordingly. Please note the
aforementioned OHP% and rates shall be adjusted without prior notice as and when deemed necessary.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice to Improve Subcontractors Performance
Dear Sir,
We hereby write to raise our concerns at your current performance in carrying out the Works. In
particular we highlight the following issues.
• Lack of onsite Site Management- We have raised this issue with you on numerous occasions and again
raise our concern that the Works are being managed remotely.
• Inexperienced Site Staff - The present site engineers are failing to supervise the works in accordance
with the current requirements. Your site labour force is reliant on the Contractor's guidance.
• Lack of Planning- Despite previously requesting the Subcontractor in late 2017, as yet you have failed
to provide a clear and trackable completion plan which can be followed.
• QA/QC- WIR progress is insufficient due to the lack of QA/QC management
Therefore, we hereby serve notice on the Subcontractor to rectify its performance with immediate
effect.

You are hereby instructed to submit your action plan to address the above concerns within seven (7)
days of receipt of this letter.
Subject :

Re: Delay Notice- Hanging Scaffold Dismantling Works in CP area

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter (4) pertaining to the aforementioned subject, wherein you allegedly
stated that the reasons for your delays are “due to pending/outstanding payments” to your scaffolding
Subcontractor. Consequently, we reject any attempt by you, to hold us responsible for the said matter
and disregard your statement that the delays are due to the issuance of the pending Variation Order for
these works.
We hereby notify you that your continuous incorrect interpretations, do not act in good faith towards
your Contractual obligations. As a result of that, we hereby inform you the following:
Below is the history of events:
•
You submitted AED 21,077,734.19 cost with your letter reference (1) and you had been
informed that the submission was insufficient and constituted only a summary page for the said amount
without any clarification/detail;
•
We required the details, in order to evaluate your submission and hold a meeting to discuss;
•
You then submitted more details of your cost, via transmittal reference (2);
•
After reviewing your submission reference (2), we requested you to provide supporting
documents in several correspondences and meetings held with our Construction Manager;
•
You revised your submission to AED 14,196,730 on 16th November 2017 via email
correspondence (Attachment 3);
•
Our Construction Manager rejected this submission as it was significantly overloaded compared
to the actual status on site, and he requested again the split on a drawing to enable us to assess it ;
•
In the meantime in the absence of the pending documentation as stated above, as a gesture of
good will, we had proceeded with the release of on-account payments of AED 6,000,000.00 in three (3)
consecutive Payment Certificates Nos 34 - 36 between September to November 2017;
•
We have sent recently an email (Attachment-1) dated 13th January 2017, explaining the
requirements for the issuance of Variation Order which has never been responded.
•
Due to your continuous failure to submit the required documents, and while you were not
proceeding with the works on site as per your contractual obligations, we proceeded with our
evaluation based on our assessment and issued Variation Order (VO) No 46 for the said works, via letter
reference (5) issuing the amount of AED 10,188,489.85;
•
VO No 46 has been signed and accepted by you via your letter reference (6) above;
Moreover, you had chosen to stop the dismantling of the hanging scaffolding, specifically in critical areas
affecting the progress of follow on trades. Also it is noted that as a result of your actions described
herein and your slow progress on site and subsequently entire stoppage of works on critical areas

(Attachment 2), we were forced to work out of sequence, leaving incomplete areas behind and delaying
other trades.
We refer you once again to the below table extracted from our previous letter referenced (3) and
reiterate that our position remains unchanged.
Item Status
CP Area – Dismantling/Modification of Hanging Scaffolding
Cloisall’s stoppage of dismantling and
modification of hanging scaffolding works is causing delays to follow-on trades and affecting progress
including but not limited to Chadwick vertical Sky light progress on the South infill and Arch 6
painting/cladding works.
To conclude, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement, and since Variation
Order No 46 has been signed and agreed by you as stated above via letter reference (6), we consider
this matter closed.
Notwithstanding the above, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or
Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will
be solely your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 and 16.6.1.
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Back Charge Notification for Unprotected Welding Works
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above mentioned Project Observation Report referenced (2), regarding
the aforesaid subject and wish to inform you that we have noticed damages in 2 nos. of installed glass
panels at PrA zone 8 & 9, occurred due to welding works carried out by you without protecting the
installed glass panels by M/S Jangho.
You are hereby advised to implement strict preventive measures in order to avoid such incidents in the
future. Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other
Sub-Contractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility
including but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors] and shall be deducted/backcharged from your interim payments accordingly.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Unjustified Code 3 Comments on Electrical Shop Drawings (update 17 January 2017)

Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence {1) wherein the Contractor submitted a notice
pursuant to Clause 9.10.3 of the Conditions of Contract regarding the provided Code 3 on Electrical
Shop Drawings.
The Contractor has not provided justification to support its assertion that the provided Code 3 is
11Unjustified". Furthermore, we note that Clause 9.10.3 of the Conditions of Contract states 11The
notice shall include details of the necessary Specification, Drawing or instruction, details of why and
when it should be issued and details of the nature and amount of the delay or disruption likely to be
suffered".
The Contractor is required to comply with the above requirements and also provide details of the
measures it has implemented in order to mitigate the alleged delay.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Re: Re: Delay Notice – Pier 2 Level 2 Retail Hold-Room Completion

Dear Sir,
We write further to our referenced correspondence (2) above, in which we notified you of your ongoing
delays to the completion and release of L1C Hold-Room. You have refuted this in your correspondence
referenced (3) above and stated some incorrect events which have to be clarified herewith. It is clear
from the attached e-mails, reports and herewith photographic evidence that, the delays occurred are
due to your obvious lack of manpower and continuous ignorance of instructions which constitutes a
breach of the Subcontract Agreement.
Below is the history of events backed up with reports and email correspondence;
1.
Your Statement:
“….. M/s. TCA JV verbally informed M/s. Cloisall to remove the protection and rectify the alignment on
the 8th of January 2018, as recorded through the attached email, and then one week later prepared the
delay letter on the 14th of January 2018. M/s. Cloisall believes that one week period is insufficient
period to complete the protection removal and panel alignment since the entire work is done by man
lifts..” [sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. The below correspondences clearly show that you had been continuously
notified since 4th December 2017, which provides you with sufficient time to complete the works, if the
required resources had been allocated.
•
E-mail communication dated 4th December 2017 from our Site Engineer Omur Halici had
requested you to complete the works in L1C Hold-Room by 27th Dec 2017. (Attachment-1);
•
E-mail communication dated 4th December 2017 from Site Engineer Giovanni had requested
you to provide holes on the High Ceiling panels of L1C Hold-Room without any further delays.
(Attachment-2) ;

•
E-mail communication dated 27th December 2017 confirms that we were continuously
reminding you of the importance of L1C Hold-Room completion and requesting you to start and
complete in order to enable the follow on trades to commence with their works. However, no action
was taken by you. (Attachment-3);
•
Email Communications dated 11th December, 27th December 2017 and 27th January 2018
show that we instructed you to proceed with the scaffolding erection. (Attachment-4);
•
Email communication dated 18th December 2017 was sent to you indicating what was agreed
during the site walk, providing agreed notes and agreed dates ( Attachment-5);
•
E-mail communication dated 6th January 2018 also confirms that we had instructed you to
proceed and stated our concerns that L1C Retail Hold-Room is critical for the client and handover date
had already passed. Also in this email we stated that Cloisall had not even started panel alignments and
requested you to complete the high-level ceiling works, wall cladding alignment and remove the panels
protection. (Attachment-6).
2.
Your Statements:
“1. Protective cover removed and the alignment is completed”. [Sic –]
“4. Balance painting works completed”. [Sic]
“5. Balance painting works near the Gatehouse 16 will remain unfinished until M/s Cloisall receives
clearance to complete the Gatehouse entrance “. [Sic]
“6. Panel kinks and alignment is completed”. [Sic]
“7. Crakes on gypsum corner edges rectified”. [Sic]
Our Response:
As of 19th February 2018, you still have not completed the majority of alignments, paint touch up works
and cracks on the gypsum corners. The enclosed site photographs are a clear proof of your incorrect
statements as shown in Attachment 7. You are well aware of the fact that works without at least Code 2
Work Inspection Request (WIR) cannot be considered completed. Consequently, be informed that to
date, no WIR has been issued for the said works. Therefore, your statement that works have been
completed is not accepted and has no contractual basis.
For Gatehouse 16 entrance wall cladding, instruction had been given to you to proceed with the
secondary steel framing using TCAJV scaffolding on 11th Dec 2017 (Attachment-4). Moreover GH 16 wall
cladding entrance is not actually part of L1C Hold-Room. The majority of balance work is L1C wall
cladding and high level ceiling.
3.
Your Statements:
“Balance skirting cannot be completed because the unfinished stone flooring”. [Sic]
Our Response:
As you are well aware, the flooring is part of the Tenant’s scope and the type of flooring has not been
decided yet since the tenant is not on board. The skirting shall be measured to be fabricated after the
stone flooring is installed.
Conclusion:

At the time of writing this letter, we hereby record that the Hold-Room has not yet completed due to
lack of manpower as mentioned above.
In light of the above explanations, we reiterate that our position for the delays caused, remain
unchanged. As such, you are requested to refrain from generating unnecessary correspondence and
proceed on site without any further delay to complete the works.
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your
responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 and 16.6.1.
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:Engineer's Instruction No. 662A - Omission of Stone Floor Tile Installation at L0.0 Business Limo
Waiting Area
Dear Sir,
With the reference to the above correspondence wherein we instructed you the omission of Stone Floor
Tiling installation at L0.0 Business Limo Waiting Area, please note that the Employer may wish to
reinstate the abovementioned works back, if there is no additional Time and Cost Impact.
According to the information above, please review and confirm whether the reinstatement of these
works will have a zero Time and Cost Impact.
Upon receipt of your confirmation, we will issue you the instruction to proceed with the Works
accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:

Change Management Hourly Rates Breakdown & Substantiation

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter referenced (5) and in continuation to our letters referenced (3) and (4) above,
please note that the Engineer’s Instruction 323 (EI) given via letter referenced (2) states that the
resources allocated for the Change Management is for the “completion of all design items”, meaning
that, they are not limited to the Briefing Pack meetings, but up until the delivery of shop drawings
accordingly.

In view of the above, and your request as per your letter reference (5), in which you are requesting our
advice on the process to submit the report for the works done at your plant and offices related to the
foregoing, we hereby request you to submit (in the required format) all timesheets for the resources
used in regards to the Briefing Pack No 39 meetings, in order for us to review and forward the same to
the Engineer for its review.
Please note that the timesheets should only include the resources related to the EI 323 and
subsequently to the Contractor’s Instruction(s). Any (if any), associated cost arising as a result of this EI
323 shall be dealt with separately and shall be submitted independently.
To conclude, once you submit the timesheets as stated above for our review, signature and approval
they will then be forwarded to the Engineer for review. Please be informed, that all timesheet are
subject to Engineer’s approval. Moreover, please note that, the timesheets will be forwarded back to
you after the Engineer’s review and approval in order for you to submit a RFVO taking in consideration
the Engineer’s comments (if any).
We notify you that we reserve our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and inform you that we shall
not be responsible for any delays or disruptions, or any cost it may incur arising out of or in connection
with the works mentioned herein.
This is for your kind information and further action.
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1004 - Delays to Airport Operation Systems Workstations Installation due to
Furniture layout Design Availability (Likely Delay Notice No. Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim
Dear Sir
On 8 January 2018, the Contractor submitted Likely Delay Notice ('LON'} No. 2727 (ref: 1) in
consideration that the outstanding furniture layout design for the AOS Workstations has the potential to
adversely affect or delay the execution of the Works.
In relation thereto, the Contractor records that to date, and despite the issuance of LON No. 2727, the
design information still remains outstanding. Annex A hereto provides details of the activities affected
by the absence of the design information in accordance with Baseline Programme Rev. 10.4. Annex A
clearly demonstrates that the remaining durations to complete the installation and set-up activities
identified therein will soon be insufficient to complete the works. Therefore, Engineer's continued
failure to provide the furniture layout design information is continuing to prevent the Contractor from
coordinating and finalising the approval of typical installation drawing(s). Absent any action on the
Engineer's I Employer's Design Consultant's part, this will impact upon cable routing works, furniture
installation and site readiness, plus associated works, which will impact upon the Contractor's ability to
achieve inter alia Milestones MS9A.S, MS9A.6, and Milestones MS09B and MS10. The Contractor
contends that this constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's
Personnel.

Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i} An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii} An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a}, (b) and (c).
Subject: Request for Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b)
for RFEI/0401/0300- Power Supply for Condensate Pumps of Blower Coils
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's response to RFEI/0401/0300 via the letter reference: {1) above, please
be advised that the information, comments, clarifications and/or instructions {the Instruction) contained
therein constitute an instruction of a Variation.
The Instruction requires to have a combined power supply for BCU and condensate pump and omit the
fused connection unit {FCU) along with the separate power supply for the condensate pump, as per the
sketch drawings reference ESK-1871 and ESK-1872.
In light of the above, we consider that, the Instruction contains a Variation that is not in the form of, or
which has not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of, a formal Variation Order.
The Engineer has stated in its letter reference: {1) above, that the Engineer would prepare and issue an
Engineer's Instruction if the response to RFEI has resulted a potential change. However, the Engineer has
failed to issue the required Engineer's Instruction, until the date of this letter. As such, we had to carry
out
the works in accordance with the current IFC information, in compliance with the provision under
SubClause
20.1.5 [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract and in compliance with the programme
requirements. Subsequently, ADDC has rejected these installations and commented that, "CE circuit
looping not allowed" {please refer to the Enclosure-1).
Considering the above and in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4 {b) of the Conditions of Contract, we
again request the Engineer to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's
instruction
and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a), within seven
(7)
days of the receipt of this letter, in order to mitigate any further delays or further abortive works.
Unless and until the Engineer takes this required action, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract, we would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the above
described
Variation. We shall not be responsible for any delays or disruptions to the Works, or the cost of any
abortive works, as a result of the Engineer's late response to our request for confirmation of Variation.
Subject: Change Management Hourly Rates Breakdown & Substantiation

Dear Sir,
We write pursuant to the Subcontract and the correspondences referenced above and with rega rds to
the "Change Management Hourly Rates" subject matter. We have requested in our earlier letter
referenced (2) above to provide detailed breakdown of the rates together with adequate substantiation
indicating how they were calculated in order to prevent any delay or rejection of your invoice for
payment, but till date we have not received.
In reference to the above, now the Engineer has given us a time line for submitting all outstanding rate
breakdown with complete substantiation/supporting documents for the submitted change management
hourly rates.
To help you in resolving the above issue we are enclosing the Change Management hourly rate build-up
guideline that can be adjusted to suit your requirements. Also, please note that all pages of the
documents shall be stamped with company seal.
Please ensure that all hourly rates and substantiations are submitted within two (2) days of you
receiving this letter and failure to do so will result in AECOM determining the evaluation as zero cost.
This is for your information, record and further urgent action.
Subject Briefing Pack Change Management Day Work Rates
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above mentioned subject and your letter ref. MTB./TCA/GIFFIN/L/000071 dated
27th July 2015, kindly find attachment of Manning List with hourly, daily and monthly rate basis with
salary breakdown.
This is for your information and records.
Subject: Request for Change Management Day Work Rates
Dear Sir,
We write pursuant to the Letter of Award Agreement referenced above and with regards to the "Change
Management Day Work Rates" subject matter. We have requested you to work out details for various
Briefing Packs and as instructed through our Contractor's Instructions, you are also required to attend
necessary workshops to progress on the joint design basis in order to achieve the required level.
Therefore, we invite you to provide the name of the persons/staff of your organization entrusted with
that development. In addition, we require the day work rates per hour applicable to each person for the
various positions to allow you to claim for payment.
These day work rates should be provided together with adequate substantiation indicating how they
were calculated in order to prevent any delay or rejection of your invoice for payment.
This is for your information, record and further necessary action
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Prequalification Approval

Please be advised that the Engineer has reviewed your Prequalification Submittal and made an Approval
Status of Code 2 with comments as per attached.
Kindly review the comments and expedite submission of the required documentation without any delay.
This is for your information, record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request of Consignment Clearance Authorisation (CCA) I Duty Exemption letter to Abu Dhabi
Customs Authorities for BHS Components- Baggage Tubs under Bill
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to Engineer's Instruction No 119/119a we kindly request employer to issue a Consignment
Clearance Authorization {CCA) Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi Custom Authorities for Imported
Materials in connection with the delivery of the BHS Components- Baggage Tubs in Twenty Three {23)
Pallets. The summary details of the shipped materials required for this delivery are attached herewith
for your reference.
We have just received the attached shipping documentation from our Subcontractor and we are mindful
that the shipment is scheduled to arrive at Khalifa Port on the 06th March 2018 thus we respectfully
request you process the requisite documentation in order to obtain the necessary exemption letter from
the Employer and to facilitate the release of the shipment from the port.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Delay Notice No. 997 - Delays to 56 nos. of MEP Shop Drawing Submittals
Dear Sir,
submitted on 2 January 2018, due to AECOM Live-Link Workflow Limitations
On 2 January 2018, the Contractor submitted a total of 56 nos. of predominantly Mechanical, Electrical
and Plumbing (MEP) Shop Drawing Submittals, collectively encompassing a total of 129 nos. of Shop
Drawings. The Shop Drawing Submittal schedule included at Annex A hereto refers. However, all 56 nos.
of Shop Drawing Submittals were placed 'on-hold' by the Engineer "due to the Live/ink workflow
limitation[s], and were only stamped received by 11 January 2018" as notified within the Contractor's
subsequent letter to the Engineer dated 15 January 2018 (ref: 2).
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 'Submittal Procedures' governs the processing time by which
the Engineer is contractually obligated to respond to the Contractor's submittals. On the basis that each
of the submittals listed in Annex A are shown to be at Revision 02 or higher, then these ought to have
been responded to by the Engineer 7 calendar days later, i.e. on 9 January 2018. However, Annex A
shows that at the date of preparing this Delay Notice (which is 7 February 2018), the Engineer has
exceeded and continues to exceed the review period for a further resubmittal review expressly
stipulated

at Article 1.3.A.3 (d) of Specification Section 013300, by 29 calendar days. The Contractor contends that
this constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's Personnel.
Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5{a), (b) and (c).
Subject: Incoming and Outgoing Correspondences Log
Dear Sir,
In reference to the above letter and in order to streamline the correspondences between us, enclosed
incoming and outgoing correspondences log has been prepared by our Document Control Group.
You are kindly requested to sign (by your representative identified under the Subcontract), stamp and
return these logs as acceptance of the transmittal of these communications. A duly signed and stamped
copy of the same will be delivered back to you for your records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Re:Notice of Back Charge- Ms. Cloisall's Damage Notification on Pier 3 Level 2 Zone 3
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of M/S Cloisall letter referenced (2) above and enclosed herewith which is selfexplanatory, regarding the damage caused as per the subject matter. Further to our review on the
content of the abovementioned letter and previous correspondence related to the foregoing, we are of
the opinion that you have not provided any records regarding the damage on the Glass Fin mentioned in
your letter referenced (3) above.
You are hereby requested to submit a damage report and/or any other records to substantiate your
allegation mentioned in your letter referenced (3) above stating that the damages arose as a result of
“our site team damaging a glass panel” installed by you whilst erecting the scaffolding for the ceiling
works. As a result, it is noted that no clear evidence has been provided as proof that the damage, was
actually caused by the wrongdoing of others. Moreover, you are reminded of your obligation to submit
all evidence for any alleged damage in a timely manner.
Furthermore, your statement that reworks for the replacement of the glass fin were “carried out in a
congested area which unfortunately lead to the ceiling being damaged” does not relieve you from your
responsibility to take care of any part of the Subcontract Works.

Despite the lack of evidence provided thus far, we confirm that all information has been forwarded to
M/S Cloisall for their review. Should M/S Cloisall provide any comments, these will be forwarded to you
in due course. However, in absence of such information as stated above, such allegations cannot be
ascertained.
Furthermore, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement, we hereby notify you
of our intention to close this issue should you fail to provide satisfactory records to substantiate your
allegations.
To conclude, failing to provide evidence as stated above, we shall hold you responsible and back charge
all the reinstatement cost and other associated cost from your account according to the Conditions of
Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other Contractors and
Other Subcontractors) whereby you are liable for the loss and damages arising out of your action.
The above is for your information and further action.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Target Programme to Completion Rev 10.2
Dear Sir,
Please find enclosed both an Excel and PDF version of Programme Rev 10.2 with a data date of 1'1
August 2017. The Rev 10.2 Programme represents the collaborative effort between the Employer,
Engineer, Contractor and Subcontractors to achieve substantial completion of the Works by 30 June
2019. This Programme considers all constraints that you have identified, including all Variations
instructed, as of 31 July 2017.
At present, Programme Rev 10.2 is not an approved Programme as understood either under the terms
of the Contract between the Employer and the Contractor or the terms of the Subcontract between the
Contractor and the Subcontractor. However, the Engineer intends to use Programme Rev 10.2 for
monitoring and control purposes with respect to the Contractor and Subcontractors until it is approved
or superseded by a revised approved Programme. Accordingly, we would request you to provide us
with, for monitoring and control purposes, your target programme to completion which aligns with
Programme Rev 10.2. We would request you to provide this to us by 31 October 2017.
Please note that this letter is not, of itself, to be considered as: (i) an admission of any entitlement to an
extension of time and/or entitlement to additional payment; or (ii) requiring the Subcontractor to
comply with an accelerated schedule; or (iii) constituting a waiver of any of the terms of the
Subcontract.
We look forward to your cooperation with this matter and timely receipt of your submission. Should you
have any queries please do not hesitate, in the first instance, to contact our Senior Planning Manager.
Yours faithfully

Subject: CEILING PACKAGE - MANPOWER REDUCTION/LACK OF WORK FRONTS
Dear Sir
With reference to the above subject and further to TCAJV's letter reference
MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/001088 dated 23'd September 2017, kindly be informed that Rev. 10.2
of the Target Programme to Completion, although contractually it isn't yet in place but we
regard as a document being sent 11FOR ACTION" and not /(FOR INFORMATION", was used as a
basis for us to achieve the targeted overall substantial completion date of the Works by 30th
June 2019. As such, M/s. Cloisall took the contents of your letter as a 11Contractual road map"
to follow the aforementioned Target Programme in order to monitor and control the works
to achieve the overall substantial completion date of the Works.
Relaying on the Target Programme to Completion rev. 10.2, M/s. Cloisall proceeded in
planning its resources accordingly in the required manner to follow the Contractor's planned
sequence. Doing so was the sole contractually-viable option because the alternative would
have set M/s. Cloisall on a diverging path with the Contractor.
Subsequently, M/s. TCAJV could not comply with its own Target Programme and, as a result,
was unable to provide M/s. Cloisall with the needed and timely access , thereby causing
significant delays beyond its control and disruptions of its work progress.
M/s. Cloisall recorded the lack of access through several official notifications addressed to
I th
M s. TCAJV, and as per reference letters no. 11388, 11389 and 11398 dated 18 October
2017, 23'd October 2017 & 24th October 2017, respectively. Furthermore, M/s. Cloisall requested
through its letter-11398 confirmation from M/s. TCAJV
in regards to the three (3) months look ahead (i.e., up to January 2018), in line with the
aforementioned Target Programme, so as to effectively plan its resources. To date, this
request remains pending without any feedback from M/s. TCAJV, while most of the areas
stipulated as "open access" per the supplied Target Programme remain to be inaccessible to
M/s. Cloisall, thereby causing a surplus of resources sitting idle on site and a significant loss in
manpower productivity and low utilization.
To elaborate on this point, M/s. Cloisall's estimated that the planned quantities of work to be
executed during the months of October 2017 and November 2017 and as per your 'Target
Programme to Completion Rev 10.2' are 25,646 m2 and 35,969 m2 respectively. Due to the
current site conditions and the lack of access to work fronts, M/s. Cloisall managed to
execute the equivalent to 16,280 m2 and 11,026 m2 respectively during this period. This
essentially reflected 63.48% and 30.65% percent work efficiency during the months of
October and November 2017, respectively.
Accordingly, M/s. Cloisall is hereby notifying you of its decision to gradually release from site
the excess/surplus manpower during the month of December 2017, while ensuring that the
remaining resources are sufficiently provided to carry out the works within the reduced

access areas provided by M/s. TCAJV. This approach is in line with the current site conditions,
reflects the below-target access areas we were promised and have planned our resources
around, and further aims to cut our losses in connection with the loss of productivity and/or
idle manpower on site.
Please note, and as previously mentioned by us in past correspondences, that " ... remobilizing
manpower is a lengthy process and we would require at least three (3} months to
reach back to the full swing."
Finally and pursuant to Sub-Clauses 10.1.4, 16.5, 21.2, and 27.1 of the Sub-Contract
Conditions, M/s Cloisall hereby reserves its right for any time and/or cost implications
pertaining to the lack of access to work fronts.
This letter is being sent for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Handed Over MEP Services (Fire & Life Safety) Damaged/Removed by Other Contractors
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes with reference to the above subject to notify the Engineer that, the handed over
fire and life safety services at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, have been damaged and/or
removed by the AMC contractor (please refer to the enclosed Site photos}. The fire and life safety
services in the aforementioned area have been installed, inspected and handed over to the Employer
through WIR procedure. As such, the Contractor shall not be responsible for the protection of those
services and we request the Engineer to take necessary actions to prevent any further damages to,
and/or unauthorised removal of, handed over MEP services by Other Contractors. Moreover, should the
Engineer and/or the Employer require the Contractor to re-install and re-test the fire and life safety
services at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, we request the Engineer to issue an Engineer's
instruction pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a} of the Conditions of Contract, and to provide a
formal confirmation of Variation, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4. (b) of the Conditions of
Contract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Back Charge - Damaged Ceiling Suspension at Pier 2 Level 1 Room
Dear Sir,
Further to receipt of M/S CLOISALL's Letter reference: CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/ CONT/11520/ 18 dated
04 February 2018 pertaining to the aforementioned subject, we would comment as below.
Please be informed CLOISALL has reported an incident associated with the damage of Ceiling suspension
due to Mechanical installations by PCEJV operatives Pier 2, Levell, Room 344. You are hereby requested
to review the detail in the enclosed letter and provide a satisfactory explanation with regards to this
issue relevant to your Scope of Works, in order to enable our verification and assessment of the same.
Subsequently, your prompt action to rectify the same shall be required. Failing such, we shall back
charge any delay and disruption cost that may have occurred from your account accordingly.

This notice is issued according to Conditions of Subcontract clauses 10.3 {Contractor's Claims) and 12.12
(Contractor or other Subcontractors) which specify the Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor or
other Subcontractors for the loss and damages due to your negligence or action.
Should you have any queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Schedule of OHP% & Manpower Supply Rates for Back Charge Account
Dear Sir,
In line with our support to all the Subcontractors who may require our assistance for supplying of
labours,
materials, plants, tools, equipment or any facilities in connection with their respective Scope of Works,
please be informed Over Head and Profit (OHP) %shall be applicable as shown in the enclosed schedule.
Accordingly, we would refer you to Schedule 0, Scope of Work Clause 4.2.44 for your information with
regards to our entitlement to charge OHP% as described below:
"The Subcontractor is responsible to provide all supervision, labour, materials, tools, plant,
equipment etc., establishment costs, material storage facilities on and off site, overheads
and profit and all other items deemed necessary to complete the aforementioned works in
its entirety in a safe and competent manner. The Main Contractor will not provide any
materials related to the Sub-contract Works."
We believe the above Subcontract Clause is self-explanatory. Nevertheless, upon your request to utilise
our facilities, or in the event that we have carried out on your behalf upon your failure to perform any
part of your Scope of Works, the above OHP% shall be deemed applicable and the same will be
incorporated in your back charge account accordingly. Please be advised the aforementioned OHP% and
rates shall be adjusted without prior notice as and when deemed necessary.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Site Memo-02742 Issued by AECOM
We refer to the above subject matter relating to defects in your installations at site as observed by CMA
during their work inspection on site.
You are hereby directed to act positively on the subject mentioned in line with project QMS in closing
and controlling notification defects raised. Moreover, you are requested to submit details of proposed
Corrective and Remedial Actions in order to progress the closing of the Site Memos and/or NCRs within
5 days upon receipt of this letter. This is because it is a contractual requirement for TCAJV to respond to
the Engineer within 14 days and built-in time is needed to correspond with you within this period.
Please include 'due dates' in your responses
Subject Pending Requests for Variation Orders and Supporting Particulars for Outstanding Variations
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,

As advised to the Subcontractor in previous occasions, the Contractor is currently consulting with the
Employer in an endeavour to reach agreement on the valuation of Variations associated with the
Subcontractor's package. In order to enable this process of consultation to conclude in a satisfactory
manner for all parties, the Contractor requires the Subcontractor's cooperation in respect of the
submission of outstanding Requests for Variation Orders (RFVOs) with full supporting particulars.
Moreover, the Subcontractor is required to expedite the preparation of all RFVOs which have not yet
been submitted to date. Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the
Subcontractor's entitlement and the Contractor's ability to evaluate these Variations to the satisfaction
of all parties.
In respect of outstanding particulars, the Contractor reiterates its request that the Subcontractor
submits the connection quantities (as per both Contract and latest bulletin drawings) and accordingly
updates the take-off sheet provided by the Contractor via the minutes of meeting held on 10 December
2017. Further, the Subcontractor is again requested to provide the Contractor with the 'Gatehouses out
of Tolerance Report' which has been referred to by the Subcontractor's management in previous
instances and may enable the parties to reach agreement on this matter.
The Subcontractor is requested to submit the abovementioned information within fou rteen (14) days of
this notice. The Contractor is committed to working with the Subcontractor to satisfactory resolve its
Variation account; however, should the Subcontractor fail to provide the necessary supporting
information as required by both the Subcontract and international Best Practice for projects of this scale
and complexity within the requested timeframes, the Contractor will proceed with its fair and
reasonable determination in due course.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00343 - Removal and Reinstallation of 4
Composite Panels on PrO North & South to facilitate Other Subcontractors Works
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter, please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00343
which is self explanatory. This Contractor's Instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 11.3 and Clause
20.1.1(a) to proceed immediately with the removal of 4 installed composite panels at PrD North & South
to facilitate the works of the Other Subcontractor. Upon completion of the Other Subcontractors works,
the Subcontractor is proceed with the reinstallation of same, all in accordance with the Enclosures
herewith.
Whilst this instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 20.1.1(a), the Subcontractor will be required to
demonstrate contractual entitlement to a Variation for each and every item and provide all the
necessary substantiation to verify the cost of each potential Variation.
Your cooperation to carry out the above instruction with due expedition is required.
Yours truly
Subject: RE: Paint Damages to Fa~ade Steelwork at Pier 4 PE4 Level 2
Dear Sir,

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of letter reference {1) and document submittals (2) and {3) in
relation to alleged damages caused by the Other Subcontractor (Eversendai) to the final painted fac;:ade
whilst undertaking the fireproofing works.
Please be advised that the Contractor forwarded the Subcontractor's claim to Eversendai whose
response is attached herewith {4).
The Subcontractor is kindly requested to review the contents of said letter and provide its response to
further facilitate the Contractor's ongoing review and determination regarding the Subcontractor's claim
and the Other Subcontractor's culpability for the same, if any.

Subject: RE: Subcontract Obligation pursuant to Specification Section 019800 Building Information
Modelling (BIM)
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of the Subcontractor's letter reference {1) which responds to a letter
sent
by the Contractor in June 2016 {2).
The Contractor wishes to clarify that the purpose of its letter reference (2) was to obtain a status update
and delivery plan from the Subcontractor in respect of its BIM submissions. The Contractor notes that
that
the Subcontractor's formal update has been received almost nineteen months after the request was
made
and therefore some of the comments made by the Subcontractor are outdated. Notwithstanding this,
the
Contractor responds in seriatim as follows:
1. The Contractor confirms that both model and data already provided cover the requirements set out
in the Specification 019800; however, the Subcontractor shall further elaborate a detailed
explanation of its approach in a brief report.
2. See item 1.
3. See item 1.
4. See item 1.
5. The Subcontractor shall prepare a more detailed and comprehensive report which shall include
specific paragraphs, workflows and figures whereby the work process for the different Levels of
Development (LODs) is exactly portrayed. The Subcontractor has provided a brief explanation thus
far which is insufficient to fully understand the development process.
6. The red line marked drawings shall be extracted from the updated LOD 400 model (i.e. Level of
Development completed to fabrication and assembly conditions). This way of proceeding is in
accordance with the CAD standards included in the BIM Implementation Plan which specify that site
updates will be incorporated to the drawings in red colour. The Subcontractor's brief explanation on
why the red line marked drawings shall not be incorporated into the LOD 400 is insufficient and
therefore the Contractor requests that the Subcontractor prepares a detailed and comprehensive
report whereby its red line marked drawings strategy is described.

The contractor confirms that the subcontractor has submitted an updated proposal for a QA/QC
checklist which is currently under the Engineer’s review; once this assessment is completed, the
contractor will forward the engineer’s feedback / comments to the subcontractor
The contractor refutes the subcontractor’s statement that BIM modeling is not related to drafting
standard and therefore it is not possible and not required to implement the CAD manual into the
models. To be clear, the subcontractor shall explain how all required drawings will be extracted from the
model or, in other works, how the CAD manual requirements (appendices of the BIM implementation
plan) will be executed.
Yours faithfully
Sub: Site Memo 02732 Issued by AECOM
Dear Sir,
Thank you for your above referenced letter containing a copy of Site Memo 02732. Having reviewed
Site Memo 02732 we have come to the obvious conclusion that the onus is on TCA N to close and
control the raised defect notification.
We refer TCA N to our previous letter ref: MTB-SMD-TCAN-L-0461 dated 24111 January 2018
whereby we attached a detailed Incident Analysis Report concerning damage inflicted on PBSS x-ray
screening machines in Level3.0 due to an unauthorized relocation of our equipment.
Please note that the aforementioned Site Memo is also related to this very same subject whereby
equipment has been relocated to an area deemed unfit for the purposes of storage due to an
incomplete
roof exposing the equipment to rain and surface flooding. It was these very reasons why we strongly
advised and refused to allow the relocation of the equipment in the first place.
Therefore, Smiths Detection will not be held accountable for the unauthorized relocation of our
equipment by TCAJV and as such will not be responsible for the closure of the Site Memo 02732.
Furthermore, as per your letter we in tum ask that you provide the 'due dates' when the equipment will
be assigned a suitable storage location, dates that should be forthcoming having held a site visit on the
same day as this letter to ascertain what action TCA N will take to rectify the situation.
We trust that the above mentioned confirmation is sufficiently clear and remain at your disposal for any
further information you may require with regard to this matter.
Yours truly,
Subject: Request for Outstanding Cost Substantiation for EOT 1
Dear Sir,
Further to our Minutes of Meeting dated 23rd August 2017, copy attached, the Contractor has
requested
the Subcontractor to provide the outstanding Cost Substantiation for Prolongation Costs for EoT 1 for
the

following period;
December 2013 to May 2014
The Contractor records that, as at the date of this letter, the Subcontractor has failed to provide the
requested cost substantiation.
The Contractor requests the Subcontractor to submit within 14 days of receipt of this letter the
outstanding Cost Substantiation as requested by the Contractor. The Contractor notes that should the
Subcontractor fail to provide the requested Cost Substantiation, it would prejudice the outcome of the
Subcontractor's Entitlement (if any) for Prolongation Costs under EoT 1.
Furthermore, if the Contractor does not receive the requested Cost Substantiation within 14 days of
receipt of this letter, the Contractor shall assume that the Subcontractor has waived any and all
entitlement during the periods that the Subcontractor has failed to provide either the requested
detailed
Cost Substantiation, or satisfactory Substantiation.
For the avoidance of doubt, the request by the Contractor for the outstanding Cost Substantiation is not,
of itself, to be considered as an admission of any entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion
and/or payment of additional Costs, nor does it constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the
Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Clause 27.1.5(a) - Interim Particulars for the Basis of Claim Delay Notice No. 979 - Delays to AOS
- Scheduled, Non-Scheduled and Ad-Hoc Flights Workshop Stakeholders not in Agreement or Absent
from Workshop
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted the Interim
Particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 979 issued via (3).
We record that the Contractor in correspondence (1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged delay
to its programme and furthermore has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements (Clause
1.3.6). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis as required under Clause
27 .2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
The Engineer also records that the Contractor has failed to comply with the provisions of Clause 27.1.5
of the Conditions of Contract to submit full supporting particulars of the basis of the claim.
In light of the above, we consider that the Contractor has not substantiated any entitlement to an
Extension to the Time for Completion and we await for the full and final particulars to be submitted in
accordance with the Contract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Roofing Works
Dear Sir,

We write with reference to the above letter (1} in relation to ongoing poor performance with the roofing
works and highlight that your Subcontractor's performance since April 2017, has not significantly been
improved. For the record, we advise that the Engineer is monitoring the works in line with the Contract,
Project Specification, ITP's, approved mock ups and benchmarks. The Engineer is continuously working
with your QA/QC team in order to address the numerous quality issues and a number of quality issues
have been addressed by the Contractor. We reject the Contractor's assertions regarding alleged
misinterpretation of the Project Specifications by the Engineer and refer you to the outstanding NCRs
and correspondence that outlines and details where short falls and the noncompliance to the project
requirements were identified. Both the Employer and the Engineer remain concerned with the current
rate of progress and the resulting delays despite all assurance to overcome this. '· The Contractor is
therefore requested to take all the necessary steps to comply with its obligations under the Contract
and efficiently manage its Subcontractor as required under Clause 12.9.6 of the Conditions of Contract.
Subject: Confirmation of Settlement for Non-Compliance of Remote Annunciator
Dear Sir
We write with reference to the above subject for your attention.
Further to our numerous discussions and meetings, we wish to record that both parties have finally
achieved an amicable settlement, whereby M/S Cummins has agreed to compensate to TCA JV with a
Lump Sum amount of AED 350,000.00 (Dirham: Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Only) towards the cost of
cabling works due to non-compliance of remote annunciator requirement, as an alternative solution in
lieu of LAN connections as per Contract Specification.
Further to your request via Email dated 17 January 2018, we hereby confirm the said amount shall be
settled against your final payment via a formal negative Variation Order which shall be issued
separately.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's Claims Process Reminder
Dear Sir,
We refer to Attachment #1 which indicates the letters issued with subject 'Construction Delay and/or
Disruption Events' and remind you of your obligations pursuant ·o Oall-se-2-7-:-l- and 27:2-ot the
Conditions of Subcontract regarding the claims process.
The table below summarizes the Subcontractor's relevant obligations in relation to notifications and the
provision of further particulars in relation to the prevailing Conditions of Subcontract.
Description
Notify the Contractor of an event giving rise to an entitlement to any extension of the Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Subcontract Price and or any
other costs or damages. Provide a fully detailed claim including supporting particulars of any extension
of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price and
or any other costs or damages, to which he may consider himself entitled in order that such submission

may be investigated at the time. For ongoing issues, provide interim particulars of any extension of the
Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Subcontract Price
and or any other costs or damages to which it may consider himself entitled.
For ongoing issues, provide final particulars of any extension of the Time for Completion,
reimbursement of additional costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price and
or any other costs or damages to which he may consider himself entitled.
Timescale
Within 21 days after the Subcontractor becoming aware, or should have been aware, of such event
having first arisen. Within 28 days, or such other reasonable time as may be approved by the Contractor,
after notification submitted to the Contractor. At intervals of not more than monthly. Within not more
than 7 days from the end of the effects resulting from the event. We urge the Subcontractor to comply
with the above stated contractual obligations in respect of the alleged delay events. Furthermore, the
Subcontractor is requested to demonstrate by return that its claim submissions adhere to the above
contractual provisions. Notwithstanding the above, PCE JV have mentioned in the referenced letters
that 'we shall continue to take all reasonable steps to mitigate the effects of such upon our works, in
accordance with our contractual obligations'. However, statement is too generic and remains
unsubstantiated. We take this opportunity to also remind you that pursuant to Subcontract clause
16.5.3 (b); the Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion in respect of any event or period of delay which the Subcontractor has not taken all
reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate (including any steps required to comply with the Contractor's
instructions under clause 16.4.1). This is for you information and action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Closing out Engineer's Instructions (EI's)
Dear Sir,
In line with the Variation Procedure being followed and to expedite issuing Variation Orders, the
Employer is requesting to close out the Engineer's Instructions (EI's) at the outset.
Thus you are requested to review enclosed Engineers Instruction List and confirm, by latest 18 JANUARY
2018, that there are no outstanding Request For Variation Order (RFVO) submissions left for these El's.
Should you have anything pending related to these El's, you are requested to submit your RFVO
submissions immediately and in any case no later than 18 JANUARY 2018.
Kindly note that in case we do not receive any response by 18 JANUARY 2018, we would consider that
there is nothing outstanding for these El's and shall advise the same to the Employer and any submission
related to these El's beyond above mentioned date may prejudice your entitlement.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Delay- Electronic Display Variations
Dear Sir,
We hereby acknowledge receipt of your above referenced correspondence titled "Notice of Delay
Electronic Display Variations" It is unclear from the body of the aforementioned letter as to what

"Electronic Display Variations" are being referred to in the so called delay notice. Therefore, we cannot
comment on any potential delay at this time.
For the sake of clarity, the Contractor has given no instruction to either deviate from the specifications
or put on hold the procurement of any display. As previously noted the Engineer has verbally indicated
that it fails to recognize any entitlement to additional costs sought via your RFV0-015.
You remain obliged to furnish Electronic Displays as set out within the specifications and drawings.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Reply - De-Scoping of Secondary Steel Structure for Double Height Pavilions
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced in (10) above wherein you are requesting reimbursement
for the purchased materials due the de-scoping of the four (4) Double Height Pavilions.
As advised during our Commercial Meeting on 7th June 2017, we are unable to verify the quantity and
quality of such materials as there are still stored in your factory, hence you have not submitted any
evidence (i.e. photos, proof of payment etc.) to support your purported claim.
In light of the above, we will only be able to advise you of our evaluation and decision of the said matter,
once such materials have been delivered to site and inspected by us.
In addition, we have enclosed herewith our current assessment of your Revised Cost Proposal for your
review and consideration.
We look forward to agreeing and closing out this issue in order to issue a Variation Order accordingly.
This is for your necessary action.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Delay Notice -Contractors Instruction Ref CI/00363A Clearance and Removal of Mock Up
(Engineer Instruction N.684A –Mock Up Building Use)
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letters/submissions referenced (4) and (5) above, pertaining to the
aforementioned subject.
We hereby reject your cost submitted via ROM referenced (4) above, where you submitted a cost for
the clearance and removal of Mock-up (M31A). Furthermore, we respond to your letter (5) where you

are requesting us to amend the wording included in our letter referenced (6) and subsequently letter
referenced (3) in which we instructed you “to proceed with all activities noted as having no cost
impact". We reiterate that the demolition and removal of visual mock-ups when directed by the
Engineer is your responsibility as provided within the Subcontract as follows:
1.
Specification Section 013310: Item 1.1B last sentence states that “demolish and remove mock
ups when directed by Engineer”.
2.
Subcontract Bill 1A/10 Pavilion Package states that “design, provide, maintain the mock up
facilities including external mock up area as detailed in Division 1 Specification 013310” is included in
your scope of works.
Be informed that RFVO-751 which is under process and awaits your response to the Engineer’s
comments dated 4th January 2018, only constitutes the changes in the mock-up itself. It is clearly
mentioned in the specification that when required by the Engineer the mock up should be demolished
and removed. Therefore, no additional statement is required.
We hereby remind you that your current approach of creating such voluminous letters, distorting facts,
resisting towards carrying out your duties, creating impasse points aiming to generate claims will hold
no ground and will only drag the issues with no result.
To conclude, failing to follow instructions shall hold you responsible and you will be backcharged all the
associated amount(s) from your account pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract under Clause 10.3
(Contractor’s Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) which specify that,
“the Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor or Other Subcontractors for the loss and damages
due to his action.“
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 and 12.12.

This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Back Charge- M/S Cloisall's Damage Notification on Pier 3 Level 2, Zone 3
With reference to M/s. TCA JV's Letter Reference MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/001192 dated 21st of January
2018, kindly be informed that the statement made by M/s. AI Gurair Construction is irrelevant to the
damages made to M/s. Cloisall's ceiling.
As discussed in the attached email correspondence with M/s. TCA JV Engineer, the Scaffolding was
erected by M/s. Cloisall on the gth of January 2017 and the damage done to the Glass Fin was on the
14th of January, thus the broken Glass Fin was damaged after Scaffolding erection and therefore
clearing M/s. Cloisall of any wrong doing.

Also, M/s. AI Gurair Construction has failed to provide a Damage Report witnessed and signed by M/s.
TCAJV in regards to these damages.
In absence of such report, such allegations can't be ascertained and therefore M/s. Cloisall will not
accept any contra charges towards the same either in the time-being and/or in the future for this case
and/or any other similar cases unless it is substantiated with the Damage Report(s) duly signed by
M/s. TCAJV.
Accordingly, M/s. Cloisall requests M/s. TCAJV to raise such notice(s) in a proper timely manner
inclusive of Damage Report(s) duly signed by M/s TCAJV; otherwise, such notice(s) will be considered
as nil and void from M/s. Cloisall's side, and in the time-being, M/s Cloisall rejects such notice and in
return refuses any back charges to be accounted to M/s. Cloisall.
Furthermore, the damage done to the Glass Fin belonging to M/s. AI Gurair Construction is irrelevant
to the damages done to M/s. Cloisall's ceiling by M/s. AI Gurair. M/s. Cloisall reserves its right to claim
any additional cost and time implication since M/s. TCA JV Engineer signed the Damage Report and
the Day Work Sheet submitted by M/s. Cloisall (ref: CL0/0401/MTB- CEILING/CONT/11182/17).
We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter, however, should require any further
information, please contact the undersigned.
Subject: Notice of Back Charge- M/S Cloisall's Damage Notification on Pier 3 Level 2, Zone 3
Dear Sir,
We write with regards to the enclosed letter received from M/S Cloisall which is self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the contents of the abovementioned letter, we regret to inform you that we
believe your
site personnel have damaged the installed ceiling works on the above location negligently while carrying
out the
works. Subsequently, we have witnessed and signed off M/S Cloisall's Daywork records for the
reinstatement cost
that we consider you shall be responsible.
Consequently, we request you to provide the comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment of
the same.
Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and back charge all the reinstatement cost and other
associated cost from
your account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims)
and Clause
12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) whereby you are liable for the loss and damages
arising out of
your action.
Should you have any queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Request for Outstanding Cost Substantiation for EOT 1

Dear Sir,
The Contractor hereby requests the Subcontractor to provide the outstanding prolongation cost
substantiation under EoT 1 for the following period;
April 2014 to May 2014
The Subcontractor has provided prolongation cost substantiation for periods in relation to EoT 1 & EoT 2
previously; however, the Contractor is also assessing your costs in relation to the period stated above.
From our records, the Subcontractor has not yet provided the requested prolongation cost
substantiation
for this period.
The Contractor requests the Subcontractor to submit within 14 days of receipt of this letter the
outstanding Cost Substantiation as requested by the Contractor. The Contractor notes that should the
Subcontractor fail to provide the requested Cost Substantiation, it would prejudice the outcome of the
Subcontractor's Entitlement (if any) for Prolongation Costs under EoT 1.
Furthermore, if the Contractor does not receive the requested Cost Substantiation within 14 days of
receipt of this letter, the Contractor shall assume that the Subcontractor has waived any and all
entitlement during the periods that the Subcontractor has failed to provide either the requested
detailed
Cost Substantiation, or satisfactory Substantiation.
For the avoidance of doubt the request by the Contractor for the outstanding Cost Substantiation is not,
of itself, to be considered as an admission of any entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion
and/or payment of additional Costs, nor does it constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the
Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Notice of Back Charge - Damage to CRISPLANT's C-502-CSS041.CV0004
Dear Sir,
Sensor - SOR- 0436- Claim Notification
Further to CRISPLANT Site Occurrence Report No. 436 as enclosed in their letter as referenced above
regarding the aforementioned subject, we would comment as below.
Please be informed CRISPLANT has reported an incident associated with delay/damage/disruption in C502-CSS041 Sensor in Grid line reference PE' -PF' /B3-BS at L02, Sector 5.22D due to mechanical
installation works from PCEJV. The same highlighted in the attached Site Occurrence Report. You are
requested to review and provide your explanation to the issues high lighted to enable our assessment of
the same. This notice is issued according to Conditions of Subcont ract 10.3.3, which specifies
Contractor's Claims and Clause 12.12.4, which specifies the Subcontractor shall be liable to the
Contractor or other Subcontractors for the loss and damages due to your action.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the delays from your account should
you fail to provide satisfactory explanation. Such amount shall be deducted from your payment in due
course in order to recover the reinstatement cost.
Failure to provide pertinent information will be seen as tantamount to that of admission.
We hope the above clarifies our situation.

Yours faithfully
Subject: Clarification on ADAC's Tax Registration Number (TRN) Customs Importer Code
Dear Sir,
In view of the VAT implementation from 1st of January 2018, in order to custom clear the shipments
upon arrival at Abu Dhabi Ports, the consignee's Tax Registration Number (TRN) should be linked to their
customs importer code.
Kindly confirm that ADAC's TRN is linked to their customs importer code to avoid any concerns during
the customs clearance.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Variation Order No. 116 - Engineer's Instruction No. 23 -Steel Structure
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 116 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08739 dated 02 January 2018.
We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 116 on the basis that the following items are not included
and
shall be evaluated separately:
Additional costs associated with design, engineering, contract administration, project administration and
site supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Through the assessment process carried out by CMA, this RFVO has been agreed to the extent detailed
and signed for by AECOM and TCAJV on the RFVO agreement sheet. Changes to Moment Connections,
Connections designed by Engineer and Connection designed by Contractor have not been agreed. These
are noted on the signed agreement sheet and submitted separately for evaluation .
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:APG Reduction as per PC # 32
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (3) above regarding the aforementioned subject.
Please find enclosed duly signed original NOC addressed to your bank (Al Hilal) for your record.
We hope you find everything in order and should you have queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Yours faithfully,
Subject:Subcontract Works for Non–Structural Metal Works for the Midfield Terminal Building Project –
Abu Dhabi International Airport – Reduction of Advance Payment Guarantee
Attention: Al Hilal Bank The Manager
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Advance Payment Guarantee issued on behalf of M/s Advanced Industries Group LLC in
respect of the above contract and confirm reduction of the value for the following guarantees:
1.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900010 to be reduced to the new value of AED
1,824,802.12 (AED One Million Eight Hundred Twenty Four Thousand Eight Hundred Two and 12/100
Only).
2.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900011 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).
3.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900012 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).
4.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900013 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).

Sincerely on behalf of the TAV/CCC/ARABTEC JV,
Subject:

Closing Out Engineers Instructions - El 458 A

Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter referenced (3) above, regarding the subject matter, in which you are raising the
issue of a possible Extension of Time and payment of associated costs due to delays attributable to the
Employer and we hereby inform you the following.
The mentioned letter and the alleged delay notice are not compliant with the Terms and Conditions of
the Subcontract. You have not identified the relevant provisions of the Subcontract, which bring the
delay notification notices, Clauses 16.5[Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis].

We also highlight your contractual obligation to submit your notice in accordance with the requirements
of Clause 27.1.1 which states that “The notice shall be given as soon as practicable, and not later than
twenty-one (21) Days after the Subcontractor became aware, or should have become aware, of the
event or circumstance giving rise to such entitlement”, which you failed to do so.
Notwithstanding the matter of fact described above which would allow us to dismiss your letter/notice
outright, going past the confirmation of non-compliance with the Subcontract, we inform you that any
delay notice shall be in accordance with the relevant Clauses of the Subcontract as mentioned above
and shall demonstrate entitlement.
In addition to the above, pursuant to Clause 16.5.3, you should provide evidence that all reasonable
steps to avoid or mitigate the alleged delays have been taken. Also, it is a precondition under the
Subcontract to provide a detailed Time Impact Analysis as per Clause 27.2 showing what effect the
alleged event(s) has had on the programme and demonstrate the Critical Activities and Concurrent
Delays.
Also note that, since we are in receipt of your Prolongation Costs Submission, which is currently under
evaluation, we trust that you have already included this portion of extension of time and associated
costs, within your global Prolongation Costs Submission stated above.
Furthermore, your compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential. Consequently,
it is our position that the notice given under letter referenced (3) above, is not in line with both the
Subcontractor's related notifications and submission obligations prescribed in the Subcontract
Agreement.
Accordingly, we consider the issue closed and expressly reserve our rights under the Subcontract.
Subject:

Substantiation of Prolongation Costs

Dear Sir,
Further to your submission of Prolongation Costs with letter referenced (3) above and further to our
meetings regarding this matter, be informed that we have conducted a review of your submission and
we have identified that the submission needs further substantiation in line with the relevant provisions
of the Subcontract. We are hereby obligated to record that to date; we have not yet received all
required outstanding detailed particulars for your Prolongation Costs Submission.
In line with our previous correspondence regarding this matter, please note that the substantiation and
clarification are required to enable us to make our determination in regards to your entitlement. As
advised after our review, we request that you resubmit your Prolongation Costs taking in consideration
the following comments:

Section Notes
Section 1 - Contractual Costs Only summary sheet and Workmens Compensation document have
been provided. Workmens Compensation is for 140 employees (details need to be provided).
The APG, PBG and Public Liability documents are missing.
No substantiation for the fees claimed. Fees to be substantiated with invoices and receipts or any
reasonable substantiation.
Section 2 - Staff Costs Only summary sheets and organizational chart have been provided. Pay slips,
timesheets, MTB gate pass, employment contracts/offer letter need to be provided for S/C staff costs.
Section 3 - Plant and Machinery Costs Check attached document for detailed comments.
Section 4 - Labour Camp and Transportation Costs
No substantiation at all. Rental agreement and
invoices for accommodation & transportation and site attendance records for labour need to be
provided.
Section 5 - Other Prelims
Vehicle rent expenses need more detail; MTB car sticker, rental
agreement etc.
Invoice to be provided for each claimed costs.
Moreover, in order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, you are also
required to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for
each delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the
Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the
Critical Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time.
Also please note, that the format used for your Prolongation Costs is not the one you were advised of.
Hence, you are hereby requested to ensure that the format, contents and structure are prepared and
provided in an acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your Prolongation Costs in
line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and
27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract.
Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the Subcontractor's entitlement and the
Contractor's ability to evaluate these Prolongations Costs to the satisfaction of all parties.
In view of the above and all previous correspondence on this matter, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order to be able to make our
determination.

This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Subject: Reduction of Advance Payment Guarantee- 401LGA152280001, Procurement of Material
Guarantee
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above, requesting
us to confirm the reduction of the Advance Payment Guarantee ref 401LGA152280001 - Procurement of
Material Guarantee, we hereby as requested, provide our confirmation that the said bond can be
reduced to AED 18,435,377.58.
We are at your disposal for any additional confirmation and/or clarification.
This is for your information and records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Payment Guarantee
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Advance Payment Guarantee issued on behalf of M/s J & H Emirates LLC in respect of
the above contract and confirm reduction of the value for the following guarantee:
1. Advance Payment Guarantee no. 123020375070-XF to be reduced by
AED 2,526,079.00 (AED Two Million Five Hundred Twenty Six Thousand Seventy Nine
Only) and new value of Advance Payment Guarantee to read as AED 60,173,921.00 (AED Sixty Million
One Hundred Seventy Three Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty One Only).
Best regards,
Subject: Response to the Interim Extension of Time Claim Submissions in respect of
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters listed on Attachment # 1 of this letter concerning the purported interim claim(s)
submissions for an extension of time to which we offer the following comments:
Please be informed that you have not fully complied with the Conditions of Subcontract, in particular
with Subcontract Clause 16 and Clause 27, by failing amongst other things, to provide complete/full
details of particulars for our review and evaluation.

Despite the workshop meeting that was held at our site office on 26 November 2015 during which the
procedure and methodology for submission of claims were explained; you, apparently, opted to submit
your delay claims by using “Impacted As Planned Method”. This method does not correspond to the
method of submission/assessment of claims defined under the Subcontract. We hereby take this
opportunity to reaffirm that Time Impact Analysis (TIA) methodology is the only approved delay analysis
methodology as stipulated under Subcontract clause 27.2.
Notwithstanding the above, the adopted analysis by you does not rely on a true critical path analysis as
we observe that you have not considered any actual progress having been made during the occurrence
of the delay events. This is justification itself that you have been failing to fully comply with the
conditions of the Subcontract; namely Sub-clauses 12.27 [Progress Reports] and 16.3.2 [Subcontract
Programme] which details your obligations to submit both progress reports and an updated Subcontract
Programme to us at least once each month.
Yet, the Project record indicates that you have failed to produce an updated Subcontract Programme
together with its monthly progress report in a consistent and timely manner. The monthly updated
Subcontract Programmes form an essential part to any extension of time claim submissions of the
Subcontractor and the absence of such critical information is preventing us from monitoring the
progress and delays against your approved baseline programme. This circumstance, unless corrected,
will not help you to prove your entitlement, if any. For that alone, we advise you to complete missing
monthly reports and updates, which should have already been officially provided by you.
We further observe that you, within your purported interim delay claim submissions, have failed to
adequately demonstrate and substantiate any feasible argument/case/event. We, other than the
aforementioned methodology comments, note the following:
•
Your interim ‘submissions’ are not presented in a proper format and to the extent that will
enable us to understand the entitlement in relation to the delay events.
•
You have not been establishing the contractual liability for each delay event.
•
You have failed to adequately demonstrate the cause and the effect of the delay events. It
appears from the interim submissions; you have merely listed in chronological order the pertinent
exchanges of correspondence between the parties. We consider that this is insufficient to satisfy the
burden of proof.
•
The entitlement within the alleged interim submissions has not been fully and accurately
demonstrated by you. There is lack of progress reports, progress photographs, minute of meetings and
statement of fact supporting your claims.
At this juncture, in order to allow us to provide an assessment as per the Subcontract, you are requested
to revise and resubmit its delay claims by adopting Time Impact Analysis (TIA) methodology as required
by the Subcontract. Following are some basic requirements:
•
You should utilize your approved baseline programme (in accordance with rev.6 programme of
the Contractor) as a base of its claims for the events occurred after 5 March 2015.
•
You are requested to update the utilized programme (without any logic change unless agreed
otherwise) considering the site progress at the end of each time slice.

•
The intervals of TIA updates for each event should not be more than 1 month.
•
You are requested to prepare a detailed delay event table in a way that the table indicates
including but not limited to delay event period, pertinent delay/claim notices and individual interim
particulars submitted by you, if any. This will not only help you to explain the chronology of each delay
event in more detail, but also constitute a record whether you have complied with the condition
precedents under the Subcontract.
•
You are requested to establish the contractual liability for each delay event and provide succinct
narratives of each delay to establish the cause and effect link.
•
You need to attach physical copies of notifications themselves in a chronological order rather
than providing a list. This will also help you to clearly explain and argue its entitlement in accordance
with the letters, inspection reports, requests for information (RFI) etc.
•
You are requested to include, within your submissions, predecessor and successor tables
together with relationship and lag details for each delay event and the rationale behind your logic.
•
You are requested to use the actual data to the maximum extent for the FRAGNETS it has built.
All activity durations in the ‘FRAGNETS’ especially procurement durations, if any, should be fully
substantiated.
•
You are requested to demonstrate what actions it took to mitigate the impacts of each delay
event as pursuant to Subcontract clause 16.5.3 (b), it is your obligation to take all reasonable actions to
avoid or mitigate delays.
•
You are requested to provide ‘total float’, ‘planned duration’ and ‘at complete duration’ for each
activity of delay events/FRAGNETS.
•
You are requested to demonstrate as to how the critical path is being impacted for each time
slice. The rationale behind is to determine which delay event(s) is/are driving the critical path within
each one month interval.
•
You are requested to provide programme snapshots of the milestones for each time slice (from
a-base programme, b-progressed programme and c- impacted programme).
•
You are requested to prepare a detailed summary table depicting the results of TIA for all
programs that are utilized.
You must have expended considerable effort in developing your interim submissions. We suggest that
you may wish to approach us for further guidance and assistance.
In conclusion, you are requested to revise and resubmit your delay claims in line with the
abovementioned requirements.
The above is for your information and action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject OTIS's ongoing lack of performance - Notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to letter (1) regarding your Subcontractor's (OTIS) lack of performance and

continuous shortfalls in progress.
The Contractor has identified that the reason for its Subcontractor's underperformance is related to
inadequate site management (Construction Managers and Supervisors) as well as qualified site
personnel. The Contractor has committed that its Subcontractor in order to rectify its deficiencies shall
provide an additional QA/QC Manager and Construction Manager (in early March), 6 adjusters,
additional erectors for the elevators and 10 more mechanics for the escalator team (ref. enclosed email
1).
lt is the Employer's and the Engineer's position that the above measures are not adequate in order to
address the adverse implications to the Programme of Works which have been created as a result of
your Subcontractor. The extent of the slippage of your Subcontractor's works is shown at the table
below:
In light of the above, and as demonstrated in the enclosed Programme Update, the works on site are at
risk and further delays will occur as a result of OTIS's underperformance. The Contractor is hereby given
notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the Conditions of Contract to immediately rectify its
Subcontractor's performance.
Subject I B-EY Hermes test delayed due to Etihad connectivity issue
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and we note that the IB - Hermes witness test could
not be performed on 13 December 2017 due the Contractor's Subcontractor (AOS). The Contractor
alleged that the Hermes test was delayed as a result of Etihad's unavailability however, we record that
your Subcontractor was not prepared for the test to be performed.
We further highlight that the IB- Sabre dry run was cancelled on 18 December 2017 due to SIT A test
platform issues.
The Contractor is requested to effectively managed its Subcontractors (Clause 12.9.6 Conditions of
Contract) and ensure that they perform as required under the Contract. You are also requested to
ensure systems readiness in advance of test sessions, with sufficient notice for all parties to be
prepared.
Subject: Additional Management of Atlas Security
Dear Sir,
Further to the receipt of the above referenced correspondence regarding the extension of support to
the
Security Subcontractor we confirm that the information requested was provided via our revised ROM
283
issued to the Engineer on 27 November 2017.
As noted within the aforementioned ROM, it is expected that additional funds will be required to
continue
to provide support to ATLAS Security until the expected completion date. It is our belief that additional
costs will be incurred from the end of April 2018, at which time all additional support will cease.

We await the receipt of an appropriate Variation Order to continue the provided support beyond the
original AED 30 million budget.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Variation Order No. 109 -Engineer's Instruction No. 54 -Steel Structure
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 109 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08745 dated 03 January 2018.
We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 109 on the basis that the following items are not included
and
shall be evaluated separately:
Additional costs associated with design, engineering, contract administration, project administration and
site supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Any necessary abortive work will be recorded and submitted separately.
Through the assessment process carried out by CMA, this RFVO has been agreed to the extent detailed
and signed for by AECOM and TCAJV on the RFVO agreement sheet. Changes to Moment Connections,
Connections designed by Engineer and Connection designed by Contractor have not been agreed. These
are noted on the signed agreement sheet and submitted separately for evaluation.
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Yours faithfully
Subject: Clarification on ADAC's Tax Registration Number (TRN)Customs Importer Code
Dear Sir,
In view of the VAT implementation from 1st of January 2018, in order to custom clear the shipments
upon
arrival at Abu Dhabi Ports, the consignee's Tax Registration Number (TRN) should be linked to their
customs importer code.
Kindly confirm that ADAC's TRN is linked to their customs importer code to avoid any concerns during
the
customs clearance.
Subject: Variation Order No. 116 - Engineer's Instruction No. 23 -Steel Structure
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 116 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08739 dated 02 January 2018.

We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 116 on the basis that the following items are not included
and
shall be evaluated separately:
Additional costs associated with design, engineering, contract administration, project administration and
site supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Through the assessment process carried out by CMA, this RFVO has been agreed to the extent detailed
and signed for by AECOM and TCAJV on the RFVO agreement sheet. Changes to Moment Connections,
Connections designed by Engineer and Connection designed by Contractor have not been agreed. These
are noted on the signed agreement sheet and submitted separately for evaluation .
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Substantiations for Star/New Unit Rates
Dear Sir,
Further to our previous letter issued via the above reference, we would like to draw your attention with
regards to the subject issue with our comments as below.
We would reiterate our statement via the above referenced letter dated 02 June 2014, as stated in the
heading of Bulletin Change Control Procedures Item 2.2.c. (see enclosed), which specifies that " ... all
Star Rates to be substantiated by three quotations for materials, etc". We would explain in further detail
for your understanding and compliance as below:
• If the relevant Material Submittal is not currently approved, you are required to provide 3 quotations
to support any new rate breakdowns. Furthermore, please ensure each quotation should include the
relevant technical compliance as well.
• If the Material Submittal is approved but order has not been made for the material, you are required
to provide a valid quotation from the approved supplier.
• If the relevant Material Submittal has been approved and installation work currently in· progress –or
completed, you are required to provide the relevant Invoice or LPO as minimum requirement to support
the new rates.
You are hereby reminded to adhere to the above requirement as requested by the Engineer. This shall
benefit all parties in finalising the rates agreement with the Engineer, who as you are aware will be
audited on the accounts.
We trust you understand our position in this regard look forward to your continued support in all future
variation submissions.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Substantiation of Contractor's Mark-Up for Variations
Dear Sir,
We refer to your above referenced letter and would respond as follows. Firstly we would remind you
that the only Overhead & Profit {OH&P) percentage (%) included in the executed Contract documents is

the 7% shown for the Defined Provisional Sum (DPS) included in Bill No.4 of Schedule 6 (Bills of
Quantities).
We note that you maintain your opinion that based upon your data and knowledge that the applicable
OH&P percentage for the measured works included in your Contract Price is 11.11%, however, we would
advise that there is nothing in Contract documents that supports this position.
In respect of your breakdown of the Contract Price, as required under Clause 21.6 of the Conditions of
Contract, we would comment that this was prepared after the Contract award consequently the figure
of 11.11% may be considered as subjective, therefore we require conclusive evidence from you or a firm
declaration from EY that the mark-up of 11.11% was actually incorporated into your Contract Price at
tender stage. Regarding EY's letter dated 10 March 2014 attached to your above referenced letter, we
would comment as below:
a) Within item 1 EY imply that the Form was prepared by the Joint Venture's management:
"The Form, which has been signed by ourselves solely for identification purposes and attached as
Appendix I, is the responsibility of the management of the Joint Venture" this indicates that the
information was extracted from the budget of the Abu Dhabi Midfield Terminal Building Project by the
JV Management. Therefore the "Schedule of Mark Up Calculation" is simply prepared by using the total
of the General Summary page of Schedule 6 (AED 10,805,822,731) exclude the sums for Provisional
Sums, the PS mark up and the dayworks equating to AED 9,784,499,462 and then dividing by the sum of
AED 8,796,567,171 (the total direct and indirect costs) resulting in a mark-up of 11.23%. b) Paragraph 2
on the second page states:
"Because the above procedures do not constitute either an audit or a review made in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing or International Standard on Review Engagements, we do not
express any assurance on the Form" This could be interpreted that EY are unable to confirm that the
figures stated on the Form (Appendix I to the letter) are correct. Furthermore paragraph 3, page 2,
states that had they performed an audit or review in accordance with the International Standards on
Auditing or International Standard on Review Engagements then "other matters might have come to our
attention that would have been reported to you"
In conclusion, until firm evidence is produced by yourselves or EY provide a clear statement that 11.11%
is the true and correct mark up incorporated within your Contract Price then we maintain our opinion
that a 7% allowance for 0 / H&P be used in the evaluation of variations.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Substantiation of Contractor's Mark-Up for Variations
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref. LTR/01289 above and respond as follows:
We do not agree that the Contract only includes an OHP percentage of 7% as shown in the DPS Bill No.4·
of Schedule 6, nor do we agree that there is nothing in the Contract Documents to Support our opinion
that the rates and prices in Schedule 6 contain profit. ·
The rates and prices in Schedule 6 Bills of Quantity for measured works and Preliminaries comprise a
Cost and a margin, as demonstrated in our letter ref: MTB/TCA/ADAC/L/000014 dated 18 July 2012, and
as supported by Condition of Contract [CoC] Clause 20.3.3; wherein reasonable profit is added to

reasonable Cost for Variation works where rates or prices within Schedule 6 BoQ are not relevant to the
Variation works. It stands to reason therefore that the rates and prices in Schedule 6 contain Cost,
overhead (as part of Cost definition, CoC 1.1 refers) and profit. It is this overhead and profit that we
maintain is 11.11% on cost.
We do not agree that that the 11.11% overhead and profit reflected in the breakdown submitted. in our
letter ref: MTB/TCA/ADAC/L/000014 dated 18 July 2012 is "subjective". We did not receive any rejection
of this breakdown and OHP percentage from the Engineer at that time and the Engineer has continued
to use the rates and prices in the BOQ's for the purposes of .Variations.
With regard to Ernst & Young's (E&Y) letter dated 10 M~kh 2014 and your selected quote therefrom
that
" ... The Form, which has been signed by ourselves solely for identification purposes and attached as
Appendix I, is the responsibility of the management of the Joint Venture ... ", the reference to
responsibility refers to the calculation of Total direct and indirect costs by the JV, the abstraction and
summation of Provisional Sum and Daywork amounts from Schedule 6 by JV and the decision by JV to
apply the percentage mark-ups JV elected to apply. E&Y cannot be responsible for this It was E&Y's
responsibility, as stated in the first three steps of their work programme, to agree the items
and amounts for total cost, mark up on cost, provisional sums, mark up on provisional sums and day
works back the Budget. Their report indicates that the items and amounts have been agreed back to the
Budget without any exceptions. Therefore, E&Y have demonstrated that the amounts stated in the
Form, or "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation", t ie back to the Budget without exception.
With respect, your comments that the "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation" is " .. .simply prepared [by
E&Y] by using the total of the General Summary page ... " is preposterous, accusatory of professional
negligence on the part of E&Y and without any comprehension of the processes stated by E&Y in their
'Agreed upon Procedures'. It is in fact the process explained by E&Y in their enumerated paragraphs 1 to
7 that explains the "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation" and the compilation of the resultant numbers that
match those in the Budget and in total the General Summary page of Schedule 6. Fortuitously and with
respect, the Engineer's reverse calculation agrees with that of E&Y's. correct method of computation.
We refer to your selected quote from E&Y's letter dated 10 March 2014 that " ... Because the above
procedures do not constitute either an audit or a review made in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing or International Standard on Review Engagements, we do 11ot express any
assurance on the Form ... ", and your comment that" ... This could be interpreted that EY are unable to
confirm that the figures stated on the Form (Appendix I to the letter) are correct ... ".
E&Y have clearly stated in their Report that the work performed by them clearly indicated that the items
reported on were agreed to the Budget with no exceptions noted; therefore there can be no doubt as to
the correctness of the figures in the Form. The language used in E&Y's report is mandatory under the
standards contained in paragraph 18 J of Section ISRS 4400 in the International Standards of Related
Services.
With regard to E&Y's comment that " ... other matters might have come to our[E&Y] attention that
would have been reported to you [fCA JV] ... ",this language is mandatory under the standards
contained in paragraph 18 K of Section ISRS 4400 in the International Standards of Related Services. It
was
not for E&Y to audit whether costs were correct or not for any items of work or materials, etc., but to

establish that the amounts for total cost, mark up on cost, provisional sums, mark up on provisional
sums
and day works related back to the respective amounts contained in the Budget. This they did with no
exceptions noted.
E&Y's mandate was to calculate the percentage for mark-up on total direct and indirect costs- their
reporting states that they recalculated the percentage at 11.234% with no exceptions noted.
We have previously invited the Engineer and the Employer to our office to view the relevant sheet of
our
Budget, which reflects the items and amounts contained in E&Y's "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation"; in
the alternative a discussion with E&Y and ourselves.
We trust that the above will be sufficient to demonstrate the mark-up included in the rates and prices
within the Contract Price for Works excluding Provisional Sums and that all Variations 'on hold pending
agreement of the mark-up can now be settled with an 11.11% mark-up on cost .

Subject: Substantiation of Contractor's Mark-Up for Variations
·-·
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter L/000931 above, we are pleased to attach hereto an original letter from Ernst &
Young dated 10 March 2014 for 'Agreed Upon Procedures' relating to " ... calculation of the mark-up
percentage on total costs ... " .
This independent engagement, carried out in terms of ISRS No 4400, determined that the mark-up on
total cost, being direct and indirect cost (excluding provisional sums and day-works), equated to 11.23%.
As we had in our referenced letter L/000931 supported justification for a mark-up on Cost of 11.11% for
Variation works, we consider that the determination from the independent financial authority of Ernst
and Young has supported our mark-up.
We trust that the above will be sufficient to demonstrate the mark-up included in the rates and prices
within the Contract Price for Works excluding Provisional Sums and that all Variations on hold pending
agreement of the mark-up can now be settled with an 11.11% mark-up on Cost.
We await your response.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Substantiation of 'TCA JV' Claim
Dear Sir,
Further to Engineer's correspondence referenced above, we are obligated to record that we have not
yet received a formal response to the previously requested outstanding detailed particulars,
substantiation and clarification of the Contractor's claim as referenced in the Heads of Agreement (HOA)
dated 5th March 2015.
This has been the subject of various weekly meetings and correspondence between all concerned
parties, including the Engineer, but not limited to, our letters referenced above. Thus we reiterate our
request for further detailed particulars and substantiation contained within the above referenced

correspondence.
Clearly if such information is not supplied, this will inevitably prejudice the Engineer's opportunity to
investigate and take appropriate action in accordance with the timescales established within the Heads
of Agreement dated 05 March 2015, with associated consequences to the Contractor.
In view of the above and all previous correspondence on this matter, we urge the Contractor to work
with the Engineer to ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order for the
Engineer to be able to make his determination prior to October 2015 (as per the HOA).
Subject Substantiation of Prolongation Costs-HOA 5th March 2015
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of the Contractor's response in letter (3) above, to the Engineer's letter (2)
above
requesting further detailed particulars of cost to further support your claim relating to 10 months
prolongation.
We acknowledge that some cost data has been received by way of the electronic files recently provided
under letter (4) & (5) above, however this only covers selected parts of sections 3 (Staff); section 5
(PMV);
section 8 (Bond and Insurance Costs) and section 9 (Other BIM Costs), all of which 'per se' we raise
further
queries and requests, as detailed below.
Please note, that all references within the following correspondence to additional Particular's,
substantiation, and justification etc, unless otherwise noted, refers to the period of time of June 2014
to March 2015, being the period identified within the Engineer's correspondence (6) above, as the 10
months prolongation that the effect of the delay was impacted.
Section 3.1-Staff from Partners (Secondment System)
The values provided against the Contractor's "Staff Costs" are based upon the Contractor's "Band
Rates". It
appears these 'Band Rates' have been agreed between the three Contractor companies as a convenient
way to collect financial information, however, they do not represent 'Cost' as is defined in the Contract.
It is fact that the arrangement between the three companies ('joint venture'), itself, does not exist as a
legal entity under the Contract. For clarity, the "Contractor" as defined under the Contract, consists of
three separate companies (ie TAV TEPE AFKEN INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONAL JSC;
and
CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTING ENGINEERING & PROCUREMENT S.A.L (OFFSHORE); and ARABTEC
CONSTRUCTION LLC (on own or together the "Contractor''). Therefore the 'band rates' will not be
considered to reflect 'Cost', as defined in the Contract. In order to substantiate the actual costs for Staff,
you are requested to provide clear auditable records
(detailed rate breakdown), as a minimum, for a representative sample of 3 'Staff personnel selected
from
each designation, for each Contractor company, listed above. The detailed rate breakdown would
typically

start from the salary amount paid to an employee plus a detailed list of 'on costs', allowances etc. to
derive
the full rate.
We also note that your monthly 'rates' for some 'Staff designations show significant increases during the
10 month delay period. Please provide the justification and substantiation, including as a minimum,
changes to employment contract, for the reasons that support these Staff rate increases.
We further note that certain Staff have been deployed onto the Site during the last 3 months of the
delay
period, whereas the Contractor's planned resources indicate a decrease in Staff during this period.
Please
provide the justification and substantiation, including as a minimum, the activities, designations and the
areas of the work Site that these additional Staff have been deployed to undertake.
Section 3.1.4- Staff from Third party Companies.
1. Quantity Surveying Company- Riyadh Abu Sbeih (RAS)
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014- March 2015, for the RAS.
2. Survey Companies-Such as City Surveys, Northern Engineering Surveys etc
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey
companies.
3. Security Company- PSS Security
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey
companies.
4. Doctors and Nurses - Lifeline
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey
companies.
5. 3.1.8 Various Consultants & Specialties & Technical Fees
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
t imesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014- March 2015, for the respective Consultant
companies performing the following tasks;
• Time Impact Analysis
• Material Testing Services
• Commercial Dept Support (Marwan Farroukh)
• Estidama Consultancy Services
• Site support services by Robert Bird Group

• Rebar Detailing Coordinator • Redesign of Concrete Beams
• QC painting Inspector
• Third party Inspection & Certification
Section 5 - PMV Costs
In order to avoid the time to perform a full audit of all your records for every month of the delay period,
we
requested in an email on 03 June 2015, (copy attached), copies of all daily "Time Cards" re lating to Plant
and Equipment for a sample Month, December 2014 only. We still await this information in a scanned
electronic (PDF) format.
Equipment & Plant Rentals
In order to progress our assessment of Plant etc. we require you to provide an entire utilization list of
equipment and plant including;
• The rentals used or provided to the Works by the Contractor and/or its Subcontractors
• The equipment and plant owned by the Contractor and/or its sub-contractors.
Currently your submission combines the rental equipment used both by the Contractor and the
Subcontractors and is unable to be separated in the form submitted. For clarity only, either, you provide
the information in a way that segregates the rentals of subcontractors, or, you integrate (if any) other
rentals of subcontractors within your current submission.
The values provided for the months (February-15 and March-15) include allocation of accruals. Please
advise when the actual invoices will be provided, to replace such accruals?
Provide a monthly record (June 14- March 15), of the actual working locations, and numbers of all
Crawler
and Tower Cranes . Detailed progress photographs with identification of each Crane would suffice.
We note that some items of equipment are billed as 1.5 months within a month. For example, Plant no.
04/03.07 /HC0046 in September 2014. Please clarify this apparent anomally.
We assume that this cost section covers all the diesel consumption used on the Works by the
Contractor,
and subcontractors for all the Plant and equipment both hired and owned. Please confirm or otherwise,
if
our assumption is correct.
Please provide soft copies of the invoices from the bulk Diesel supplier and the rate per litre, if not
stated
on the invoice.
We note that some items of Plant that are indicated in the list of rental equipment are not
correspondingly
listed in the Diesel consumption sheets. Please clarify this discrepancy.
Section 8 -Bond and Insurance Costs
Please explain how and why monies related to insurance and bonds etc have increased due to an
increased
duration of the Works.
With regard to the information provided, confirm the meaning for the abbreviations: PB, APG, EIPG,
AIPG ,

RG and CGL
Provide soft copies of Agreements or other substantiation relating to listed costs for;
• Bond and/or Guarantee/Commissioning Fees,
• Arrangement and Commitment, Agency Fees
• Insurances including; Professional Indemnity, Commercial Motor and Office Multi Cover Please clarify
and identify the ledger entries which do not reconcile with the actual date the costs were
incurred. For example, voucher nos. 136, 251 and 277.
Section 9- Other BIM Costs
We are currently analyzing the information received and will provide a complete response to this
section in
due course. However, we have identified certain items as highlighted on the attached spread sheet for
which an explanation is required.
Please clarify the calculation and meaning of the ledger entries for "Bentley BIM Software Share"
relating
to the months (June 14- March 15} being the delay period.
Appendix 02 - actual costs up to January 2015.
We record that the costs for the March 2015 have subsequently been received. We also note that there
are
many items of costs within this section that are included as 'accruals'. Please advise when the actual
invoices will be provided, to replace such accruals?
Item 18 Partners' Overhead
Whilst we may agree that the Contractor is entitled to claim additional 'Cost' relating to the prolonged
period, we do not accept that this is substantiated by the simple application of a 'formula'. Accordingly,
you
are requested to demonstrate, by provision of records etc, that the respective contracting companies
incurred actual costs in relation to the delaying event during the period of June 2014- March 2015.
Spreadsheet data in Appendices 2, 3 and 4 of your submission
Regarding the balance of all other details requested in our letter (3} above and email dated 24 May 2015
(copy attached}, we still await auditable records and the justification and substantiation of cost details
of
'Heads' requested for;
• "The Organization Chart for Staff, (period June 14- March 15}
• Indirect Labor,
• Depreciation cost (including the list of equipment owned by JV with their asset costs},
• Running Costs,
• Provisions of Utilities to SCs and,
• Permanent Power Supply.
• Contractor response to the query raised by Engineer in respect of rounding formulas on the
ManMonth
Calculations
• Details of "Software" costs"

Also, Section 8 of your electronic submission, referred to within this correspondence, includes only a
copy
of the file for section 7- "Other BIM Cost", Please include the correct f ile within your next submission.
Finally, we are very concerned that the dates committed to by the Contractor, within the 07 April 2015
programme (copy attached}, to provide all necessary supporting data and information to fully
substantiate
his claim for prolongation costs, in a manner sufficient to allow the Engineer to satisfactorily perform his
audit and determination, as per the Heads of Agreement, have fallen significantly behind the
commitment
made by the Contractor back in April 2015.
The Contractor's programme referred to above, consist of 34 separate 'Heads'. According to this
programme, by the 10 June 2015, the Contractor should have provided fully detailed submissions for 30
'Heads'. In fact, after three and a half months, the Engineer has received only a part of the first Head, as
described above. It is evident that for the substantiation and determination of the Contractor's Claim to
be completed by the
stated date of 06 October 2015, the primary focus must be upon significantly increasing the Contractor's
effort and resources that are being applied to th is task. This will require a significant increase in
resourcing
from the Contractor.
We trust the Contractor will now address these issues as well as providing the further detailed
particulars
and justification as requested and required by the Contract.
Yours faithfully

Subject: Submission of Contractor's Claims (HoA) Update 2
Dear Sir,
We refer to our letter dated 3'd August 2016, reference MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/ 008519 in regard to the
'Submissions of Contractor's Claims' pursuant to Heads of Agreement 51 h March 2015 and in respect of
the Subcontractors' Prolongation and Disruption Costs, assessed by TCA JV, and submitted to AECOM
under cover of the updated letters referenced in Schedule 2 Rev 2 dated 9th February 2017 attached
hereto.
The 25 HoA submissions, previously submitted to the Engineer (under the referenced letters listed in
attachment 1) contained but were not limited to the following;
• Narrative report which demonstrated the individual Subcontractors entitlement to additional
payment. Details outlining the Contractor's assessment of the work package Subcontractor's entitlement
to EOT and Prolongation Costs .
• Contractor's review of the time and delay events.
• Subcontractor details i.e. commencement date, critical dates etc.
• Subcontractor's Timelines. Bar charts detailing the summary of entitlement to Extension of Time based
on TCA JV's overall Consolidated Delay Analysis.

• Impacted monthly breakdown of Subcontractors Prolongation Costs.
Attached Schedule 2 Rev 2 provides a breakdown of the 25 subcontractor submissions (includ ing new
letter references of issuance of updated Subcontract Cost submissions) which TCA JV submitted to date
with respect to Subcontractors' updated Prolongation and Disruption Costs in relation to the HoA, and
for which we are still awaiting an Engineer's determination in terms of Clause 23c of the HoA.
Once again, we have not been issued any 'preliminary determination' by the Engineer for any of the
submissions made on behalf of our Subcontractor's Costs to date.
As we have stated in numerous correspondence (MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/006606, 008519 & 009940),
further detailed records of Subcontractors Prolongation and Disruption Costs are available with the
subcontractors themselves for your review and audit. We have proactively requested all the
Subcontractors to comply with providing 'all cost substantiation' for their respective periods of delay,
assessed by TCA JV and submitted as per the attached Schedule 2 Rev 2. Once further. cost
substantiation is provided by our Subcontractor's (on discs) it shall be issued to AECOM at the earliest
opportunity for further audit and review in support of the submissions al ready issued to you under
Schedule 2 Rev 2 attached. As on the 8th February 2017, the revised amount being claimed for
Subcontractors Prolongation and Disruption Costs is AED 1,118,993,852. In relation to TCA JV's separate
Prolongation Claim under the HoA, please note that the initial claim which was submitted under letter
MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/007228 dated 16th March 2016 was revised and resubmitted under letter
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/10096. As on the 8th February 2017, the revised amount being claimed for TCA JV
Prolongation Costs is AED 485,588,379.
Please refer to attachment 4 for the summary of all the related Contractor's claims submitted to AECOM
as on 8th February 2017. We look forward to receipt of AECOM's certification of the costs claimed and
due.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Submission of Contractor's Claims (HoA) Update 2
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above letters {1) to {6) regarding the Contractor's commitment to
finalize the ascertainment of its Subcontractor's cost by 15 May 2017. According to our records and as of
COB 15 May 2017, we have been notified of the readiness of around 9 submissions out of the required
twenty two submissions. We record that to date the submissions have not been made in a gradual
manner and within the agreed timeframe. We highlight that the Contractor's failure in meeting the
agreed date as well as its failure to follow the agreed process for the submissions
jeopardizes the Engineer's review and may affect the completion of the assessment.
We note your letter {7) which we received an advanced copy of on 15 May 2017(email copy attached)
and note that you advise of further delays in the receipt of the remaining outstanding submissions.
Consequently, the Contractor is required as a matter of urgency to inform the Engineer and the
Employer when the outstanding cost substantiation is going to be submitted.
We further advise that until such time the full submissions are made and review of the Engineer is
conducted, we will not be in a position to review the report contained within your letter {7) above as the
supporting submissions remain outstanding.

Subject Submission of Contractor's Claims (HoA) Update 2
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the alleged second
update of the Contractor's Claims pursuant to the Heads of Agreement.
Although the expected requirements regarding the Contractor's submissions have been previously
responded to by the Engineer, for the sake of clarity it is necessary, due to the numerous inaccuracies
contained in your letter, the Engineer to provide a further response:
The Contractor asserts that the Claim submissions pertaining to the Subcontractors have not been
assessed by the Engineer and further alleges that the required substantiation has been provided.
Reference is made by the Contractor to correspondence MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/008519 dated 3 August
2016 without mentioning the Engineer's response to this letter (ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-05962
dated 23 August 2016).
The Engineer in the above referenced correspondence recorded again the shortcomings of the
Contractor's submissions and detailed the issues which need to be addressed by the Contractor in order
to evidence any entitlement which may exist for additional payment.
The Contractor conveniently lists the correspondence which has been issued regarding the
Subcontractor's "Prolongation and Acceleration" costs without referring to the numerous letters issued
by the Engineer detailing all the requirements which need to be complied with in accordance with the
Contract.
The Engineer reiterates that the Contractor is in breach of his contractual obligations as to date the
Contractor has failed to undertake and provide a fully detailed auditable evaluation of the
Subcontractor's Claims. The assertion that "further detailed records of Subcontractors Prolongation and
Disruption Costs are available with the Subcontractors themselves for your review and audit" is rejected.
It is not the Engineer's responsibility to audit your Subcontractors. On the contrary, it is the Contractor
who is required to audit, evaluate and determine the Subcontractors claims and provide the required
particulars to the Engineer that demonstrate entitlement under the Contract. For the record, the
Engineer has provided details of the required level of substantiation vide the
following correspondence: The Engineer reiterates that the Contractor has failed to reasonably
substantiate the claimed amounts.
According to Clause 27.1.7 of the Conditions of Contract, unless and until the particulars supplied are
sufficient to substantiate the whole of any particular claim, the Contractor shall only be entitled to
payment for such part of the claim as it has been able to substantiate to the standard required by the
Engineer and the Employer.
Subject: Breach of Conditions of Contract
Contractor's Claims pursuant to HOA
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference (6) above regarding the breach of Contract arising from your failure to
make the necessary determinations thus preventing any further payments of Costs as set out in the
Heads

of Agreement (HOA).
We note that you neglected to address the notice of breach in respect of your failure to undertake your
duties, letter ref. (5) above received by you 12 calendar days prior.
Your reply does not address any of the substantive matters in connection with the Contractor's
entitlement to a determination pursuant to the Contract, and the agreed extension of Time for
Completion (EOT) as set out in the HOA.
This letter demonstrates that you have relied on your own breach as 'justification' to deny the
Contractor
a rightful entitlement to the recovery of Costs arising from undisputed Employer caused delays.
Your remarks, characterizing the above as a problem of "cash flow" is erroneous, misleading and
damaging to the Employer's interest. Non-payment is grounds for a legitimate right of the Contractor to
suspend the Works.
Our reply is given against the same headers and sections of your letter reference (6) above.
Relevant Provisions of the HOA
To quote form your letter, with "reference to selective provisions of the HOA" we assert that Clause 2
and 3
are the most relevant in respect of the settlement of the Contractor's claim. These are re-cited here
below with emphasis added:
"2. The Employer hereby awards extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in
Schedule 16 [Milestones) to the 'Extended Date's' stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto." The HOA records an
"agreement" to reimburse the Contractor's Costs, as follows:
"3. The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions to
the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in Schedule 16 [Milestones] to the 'Extended
Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto,"
... Subject to the proviso and procedure that the final amount of:
" ... such Costs to be substantiated as set out in these Heads of Agreement."
1. Clause 5 of the HOA sets out that "the parties will negotiate and enter in
to Amendment Agreement No.
3 to the Construction Contract (the "Amendment Agreement No. 3") ... ". Unfortunately, it was not
possible for either Party to reach an agreement on the precise terms of the amendments. We do not
agree with the characterization of the inability to negotiate and reach mutually acceptable terms as
refusal on our part.
In this regard, we do not accept that the absence of an amendment as ground to nullify the HOA or
the intended agreements and/or determinations recorded therein.
More importantly it does not abolish or do away with the rights and obligations under the Contract
with respect to Contractor's claims, as your assertion "Accordingly, no money is payable to you" seem
to suggest.
However, this appears to be the main thrust of your letter; i.e. to create a pretext to renege on
determinations and the payment certifications, which in the absence of a Contract amendment, are
deemed to be issued by you pursuant to, and in accordance with the requirements of the Contract.
If you (or the Employer) contend that the intents of the HOA are no longer valid, such contentions do
not in any way waive or diminish the Engineer's responsibility to issue determinations on all the

Contractor's claims.
2. The relevant and fundamental fact of the HOA is that it establishes an Employer's agreement to a
settlement of Contractor claims in relation to Employer delay events outlined in the HOA up to and
including the period prior to 5 March 2015.
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the HOA (which are procedural in nature), the above
quoted parts constitute the essence of the "agreement", namely the principles and the scope of
entitlement.
It is abundantly clear from the HOA document that monies were in fact:
a) payable pursuant to:
i. the Engineer's " preliminary assessment" as recorded in HOA clause 9 which sets out, :
"For the avoidance of doubt, the Engineer's preliminary assessment for Payments 1 and 3 are the
minimum payments the Contractor shall receive in settlement of the respective Contractor's
Claims", and
ii. the provisions of CoC c. 27.1.7 which obligate the Engineer to provide for:
"Each interim payment shall include amounts for any claims that have been reasonably
substantiated as due under the relevant provision of the Contract. Unless and until particulars
supplied are sufficient to substantiate the whole of any particular claim, the Contractor shall only
be entitled to payment for such part of the claim as it has been able to substantiate to the
standard required by the Engineer or the Employer." b) paid pursuant to the Interim Payment
Certificates cited in letter reference (5) above, presumably
certified and attested by the same Engineer in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 11
(Payment Terms) clause 5.4 which sets out (emphasis added):
"When agreeing or determining the amount of the interim payment to which the Contractor is
entitled and issuing the Interim Payment Certificate ... "
Therefore, having issued such interim payment certificates, you are deemed as having agreed or
determined such amounts in accordance with the Payment Terms.
c) The only remaining amount requiring the Engineer's assessment and agreement was HOA
payment no. 2 which you and the Employer agreed to pay in part on account. This is described in
HOA c. 10 as follows:
"Payment 2 or a part thereof (as applicable) shall be immediately repayable if and to the extent the
remaining balance of the Contractor's Claims accepted by the Employer (if any), in accordance with
the process outlined below, total less than such payment. The Employer shall be entitled to set-off
any amount of Payment 2 that becomes repayable against any sum that is or may become due to
Contractor under the Construction Contract, including (without limitation) interim payments."
This is further clarified under HOA "Payment of Claims" c. 24 as follows:
"If and to the extent the Engineer approves amounts for Contractor's Claims in excess of Payments 1
and 3, any sum thereby due shall be paid by the Employer in accordance with Clauses 27.1.7 and
27.1.8{b) less Payment 2."
Our position remains that notwithstanding the inability to reach mutually acceptable concessions
regarding the terms of the HOA Contract Amendment, it does not relieve the Employer or the
Engineer from their original obligations under the Contract, nor does it give the Engineer a right to
waive the Contractor's right and entitlements.

Therefore, notwithstanding the clear language of HOA clauses 2, 3 and 4, you remain required to
undertake your duties and obligations as set out in Conditions of Contract clauses 21.2 (Adjustments
to the Contract Price), 27.1.6, 27.1.7, 27.1.8 (Contractor's Claims) and 27.2.1 (Time Impact Analysis),
5.4 (Interim Payments) under Schedule 11 {Payment Terms), 11.5 {Time/Cost Record) and most
importantly 11.4.1 {Determinations).
You are mandatorily obliged to authorize interim payments for the parts of the Contractor's claims
which are substantiated. You are also obliged to record the agreements between the Parties
regardless of their shape and form, barring which you are obliged according to CoC c. 11.4.1. to make
your own assessment and "a fair determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due
regard of all relevant circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the
Parties as set out in the Contract."
The irrefutable fact of the matter is that you have persistently failed to undertake such Contract
mandated duties.
3. For the record, the payments provided pursuant to the HOA were undertaken by the Employer to
overcome breaches originally arising from your continued failure to assess, agree and/or determine
Contractor's claims during the course of the Works. This culminated in the Employer's initiative to
wrap up all claims, events, and occurrences (including the Engineer's breaches) within the scope of the
HOA.
Although we appreciate being paid amounts legitimately due to the Contractor, we reject the
allegation that such payments were provided as "financial assistance". Such payments were owed to the
Contractor due the "unprecedented nature and scale" of the
Employer changes which have not ceased despite the agreements set out in the HOA.
In the absence of a signed Amendment No. 3 you may seek to avoid complying with clause 23.c of the
HOA, which sets out that the "Engineer will make its preliminary determination with detailed comments
within 28 Days of receipt of the Contractor's final particulars for each part of the Contractor's Claims;"
You should be aware that CoC c. 27.1.6 also requires the Engineer's action "within twenty-eight (28)
Days". Therefore, notwithstanding such pretext, your obligations remain the same. In which case,
your remarks regarding the valuations being made in "good faith" does not imply any extraordinary or
unwarranted action on the part of the Engineer.
Under Applicable Law, good faith is an express covenant that the parties to the Contract will deal with
each other honestly, fairly and in good faith so as not to adversely affect the right of the other Party to
receive the benefits of the Contract.
Your statement that the Contractor's "continuing failure to progress the Works in accordance with your
contractual obligations as a basis to extract further financial assistance from the Employer. Such actions
have no contractual basis and the Engineer rejects any attempt by you, to hold the Employer
responsible
for your failures or the failures of your subcontractors" is wholly erroneous and adversely affects the
interests of the Employer.
Such statement on your part is not in keeping with each Party's obligation to act in in good faith.
Consequently we request your written retraction of this statement and all similar ones.
In response to you statement that there is "no contractual basis" for the payment of HOA claims to the
Contractor we refer you to the provisions of the Contract cited in section 2 above and request that

you cease and desist from making such absurd assertions.
We also request that stop bringing in unrelated events and that you only refer to the events and
maters within the scope of the HOA.
You are reminded of the mandatory obligations under CoC c. 11.4.1 which require that you: "shall
make a fair determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the
Contract."
The fact remains that to date you have failed to make a timely and fair determination of our claims. This
failure to administer and undertake your duties as expressly prescribed is a violation of the Conditions of
Contract and is not in keeping with good faith obligations under the Contract and in Applicable Law.
This substantive breach of the Conditions of Contract gives us grave concern as it adversely affects our
ability to deliver the Works in a timely and cost efficient manner.
Contractor's "purported" Submissions
You ought to be aware that 'payment' is principally the obligation of the Employer and the right of the
Contractor, not the other way around. Your allegations regarding "prejudice to the Employer's ... rights
... in
relation to your entitlement to be paid" is fundamentally flawed; particularly when such payments have
been unequivocally agreed, an Engineer's interim payment certificate issued and payments for same
received! By way of examples we quote from several of your letters:
a) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-04498 dated 25 October 2015:
"Since commencing the process in March 2015, of resolving the Contractor's Claim encompassed within
the HOA we are obligated to record at the time of writing, that the Contractor has not provided the
Engineer with sufficient 'substantiation' that would enable the Engineer to comply with Clause 23 (d) of
the HOA, which states; "All Contractor's Claims to be resolved by the Parties within six months of the
effective date of the Amendment Agreement No. 3"
b) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-04137 dated 11 August 2015:
"Clearly if such information is not supplied, this will inevitably prejudice the Engineer's opportunity to
investigate and take appropriate action in accordance with the timescales established within the Heads
of Agreement dated OS March 2015, with associated consequences to the Contractor."
c) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-04394 dated 30 Sep 2015
"Notwithstanding that you have failed to provide the Engineer with further substantiation as requested
above, you will be aware that it is not possible to perform an in depth analysis without the aid of the
native files. "
This entire section rests on falsehoods, which are not in keeping with the relevant facts and appear to
be a
pretext to avoid undertaking your own obligations. The facts bear out that the Engineer has frustrated
the
process to determine by consistently failing to undertake those specific Engineer's duties.
By your own admission, you purport that the lack of adequate and necessary substantiation is the cause
preventing the Engineer from making the determination required pursuant to the HOA and Contract.
For the avoidance of doubt the final particulars were provided in the Contractor letters listed here
above.

Notwithstanding the above pretexts, you remain in breach of your obligations under the Contract since
you are still required to make determination by taking "account of the extent (if any) to which the failure
has prevented or prejudiced proper investigation of the claim" when assessing and determining "any
extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and/or adjustment to the
Contract
Price" as set out in Conditions of Contract clause 27.1.9. Recovery of Delays and application of Delay
Damages
We reject as groundless your assertions that ~ delays are due to Contractor's "continued failure to
progress the works" without consideration of the causes, responsibilities and consequences of the
relevant
delays.
The HOA establishes agreement regarding delays for a specific scope and time period. The delays
outside
the scope of the HOA are not relevant to the Engineer's obligations to agree or determine the costs
claims
pursuant to the HOA delay events and the Employer agreed EOT.
We acknowledge that further Employer delays have occurred beyond the events with the HOA.
However,
this is not a valid reason or justification for the failures on your part to make the necessary
determinations
in respect of the additional Cost claims for the periods set out in the HOA.
For such further Employer responsibility delays we refer you to the subsequent Contractor claims
submitted to you as listed here below.
You ought to undertake your duties in earnest with respect to the outstanding claims according with
provisions of c. 27 for Claims, Disputes and Arbitration: It is worth noting that you have failed to take
any proactive and independent steps as required under the
Contract to assess, agree and/or determine any of the above.
The above will be addressed separately.
Concurrent Delay
The agreement between the Parties as on 5 March 2015 was a commercial decision reached in part as a
result of the failure of the Engineer to properly assess and determine the Contractor's entitlement to an
EOT in a professional and timely manner. As recorded above ''The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse
the
Contractor's Costs for the full period of_ extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract
Milestones in
Schedule 16 [Milestones] to the 'Extended Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto' and ' ... such Costs to
be
substantiated as set out in these Heads of Agreement."
It is clear that the Parties did not envisage any need to disprove any future claims of the Engineer with
regards any perceived Contractor Concurrent Delay. Indeed the Engineer himself did not mention such
need in his assessment of the Contractor's entitlement to an EOT. However, if the Engineer maintains its
demands for the Contractor to disprove any and all alleged

Contractor's Concurrent Delays then the HOA provisions regarding a waiver of the Contractor's rights to
claim for time and/or cost (prior to the date of the HOA) will need to be reconsidered as any such
Employer delay events may have had a later impact on other Works which may, prima facie, appear to
be
a Contractor delay whereas in reality they are the consequence of an earlier Employer delay event.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has, prior to the agreement of the Parties, issued several
consolidated claims which include a detailed Time Impact Analysis (TIA) for each Employer delay event.
The result of these consolidated claims, and the resultant TIA's, support the Contractor's claim for an
EOT
far beyond that agreed under the HOA.
As you are no doubt aware the Conditions of Contract call for the Contractor to support all claims for an
EOT by way of a TIA. Furthermore a TIA is based on the effect of delay events on the Contractor's
intentions for the future conduct of work in the light of progress actually achieved at the time of the
delay event and can also be used to assist in resolving more complex delay scenarios including
concurrent delays, acceleration and disruption.
The Engineer is reminded that the definition of Concurrent Delay under the Conditions of Contract is
"Concurrent Delay means the occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event
within
clause 16.5.1{a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects of which are
felt at
the same time". It is therefore possible to establish the existence or otherwise of any apparent
Contractor
Concurrent Delay simply by analysing the data included within the TIA's submitted by the Contractor in
support of his claims for an EOT and recovery of resultant Costs. It can be seen that that there is no
Contractor Concurrent Delay.
Your reference to clauses 16.5.1 (a) to (c) simply provides support to the Contractor's right to claim to an
extension of the Time for Completion. The invocation of these clauses fully support the Contractors
entitlement, but for the breaches by you of the Engineer's obligations under clause 27.1 (Contractor's
Claims) and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis).
It is evident that, contrary to the opinion of the Engineer, such reference is in support of the
Contractor's
entitlements and points to an incorrect interpretation of the Contract in respect of the Contractor's
entitlements to the extension of the Time for Completion.
Similarly, clause 21.2.1 provides the Contractor the entitlement to payment. This clause states that the
Contractor "shall be entitled subject to clause 27.1 (Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which
shall be added to the Contract Price." Again it is evident that your referenced clause supports the
Contractor's
entitlement to claim.
Your reference to paragraph 1.3.7 of the Programme Project Control Requirements (PPCR) Specification
is
unclear. This document governs the planning and control procedures for any "Extension of Time

Programme". The PRCR states that "the Contractor must demonstrate that there are no concurrent
delays ...
which would render the extension of time non-compensable". The method of delay analysis by which
the
Contractor is to demonstrate that no such Contractor's Concurrent Delays exist is, as recorded under the
Conditions of Contract, by way of a TIA. The Contractor again records that he has fully discharged this
obligation under the Contract.
The Engineer's statement recording "if the contractor considers itself to be entitled to an extension of
the
Time for completion" shows a fundamental failure in his ability to understand the Contract and the
agreement between the Parties. The Contractor again reminds the Engineer that an EOT has already
been
awarded. Additionally the matter of EOT and Concurrent Delay is expressly dealt with under CoC clause
16.5.4 which records 11Where there is a Concurrent Delay, the Contractor shall be entitled, subject to
this clause 16.5 and clauses 27.1 (Contractor's Claims) and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis), to an extension
of the
Time for Completion".
Your assertion that the Contractor is "not entitled to compensation for prolongation, under the HOA or
for any notified events post the HOA" is wholly erroneous and without foundation. It is the responsibility
of the Engineer to determine the Contractor's claims to recover its Costs and you cannot abrogate this
obligation under the Contract.
The Contractor again records that the TIA's demonstrate a valid chain of critical activities impacted by
Employer delay events, absent of any Contractor Concurrent Delay being felt at the same time. This is
self-evident from the relevant critical path activities shown in the TIA and the Contractor has
demonstrated the effect and consequences of the Employer delay events and/or periods of delay as
required under the provisions of the Contract.
Your current approach to the administration of this Contract is not consistent with the requirements
under the Contract or the intentions set out in the HOA. Your actions and departures have caused
breaches by the Employer under the Contract. These appear intended to frustrate the Contractor and
deny the Contractor recovery of legitimate Costs pursuant to legitimate claims. As such your
correspondence is a not a true reflection of the current status of the Contractor claims settled pursuant
to
the HOA.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Breach of Conditions of Contract- Contractor's Claims pursuant to HOA
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the Engineer's alleged
breach of the Conditions of Contract in relation to the Contractor's Claims pursuant to the Heads of
Agreement (HOA).
We concur with t he Contractor's statement that the issue has been previously addressed by the
Engineer and that the Engineer has repeated the same position put forth in prior correspondence. The

Contractor has been requested numerous times to submit the required substantiation to support an
entitlement with regard to the claimed cost.
The Engineer refutes the assertion that for more than a year has made no effort to agree or det ermine
the amounts due. The Engineer's efforts are well documented via the numerous correspondence issued
throughout the year to the Contractor, urging for the necessary records to be submitted and the proper
substantiation to be achieved in order to enable the Engineer to determine the submitted Claims. These
are listed below for ease of reference as follows:
The Contractor shall abstain from issuing any further spurious correspondence regarding the alleged
"Breach of Contract" by the Engineer.
We note that a way forward has been agreed by the Engineer and the Contractor at the meeting held on
7 March 2017 and we look forward to receiving the Subcontractor's substa ntiation as agreed at the
meeting and confirmed via correspondence ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06945 dated 9 March 2017.
Subject Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
Dear Sir;
We examined your reference letter dated 26 September 2016 regarding Breach of Contract in Relation
to Contractors
Instructions.
We acknowledge receipt of your above reference letter and would confirm our position that Briefing
Pack workshops,
studies, sketches and any relevant documentations does not form part of our Subcontract agreement.
This process is
established with the following intent described in every Briefing Pack earlier instructions however the
wording has
been allegedly modified out of our control, knowledge and consent that we strongly disagree due to
reasons raised
earlier through our letter dated 17th Mar 2016 however have never been properly responded so far.
"The intent of the Briefing Pack is to alert us and you intended changes to the Works, which will be
workshopped in
collaboration with the Employer, Engineer, us and effected subcontractors with the intent of
accelerating the
remaining design and engineering coordination of the Works. This process should result in fully
coordinated IFC
Drawings being issued by the Employer's Design Consultant thereby reducing the need for an extensive
RFI process"
We have duly attended to such Workshops with immediate effect pursuant to Subcontract Clause
11.3.1. and 20.3
with our upmost contribution for the success of this process.
However we have never received a fully coordinated IFC Drawings issued by the Employer's Design
Consultant since

the date this practice started. Instead, we have received changes in the wording of such Briefing Pack
instructions
waiving all their liabilities in relation to issuance of fully coordinated IFC Drawings but instructing us to
carry out works
in the absence of fully coordinated IFC drawings with sketches issued in stages. Such instructions with
sketches does
not form part of our Subcontract agreement. We are unable to give immediate effect to such
instructions as further
coordination is required with all disciplines ensuring that all changes in relation with Briefing Pack is
captured and
closed. None of the Briefing Pack's "Closure" have been achieved so far. The "Closure" of Briefing Packs
would only be
achieved by a fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by the Design Consultant who has complete
ownership of the
Design. Accordingly we do not accept your allegations with statement that we are in a breach of
contract and totally object to such Contract administration changes unilaterally enforced with an
attempt to misuse Subcontract Clause
11.3.1.
Design responsibility is not within the Subcontractor scope of work; and such design responsibility could
not be
instructed as a Variation as per the terms of our Subcontract. Thus any claim on the contrary is against
the terms and
conditions of our Subcontract. It should be noted that ANEL shall implement any Variation which is
falling within the
definition of Variation under our Subcontract and is instructed by the Contractor as per Clause 11.3. For
that reason
ANEL, as an experienced subcontractor strictly complying with the terms our Subcontract, does not
accept any claim
regarding a breach of our Subcontract relating to Contractor's Instructions.
Briefing Pack Instructions became an uncontrolled process that none of the Party could guess the impact
of those
Briefing Packs and the impact to its interfaces instead those impacts would have been well studied and
workshopped
along with the technical discussions ensuring all stakeholders being aware of such changes and its
consequences that
eventually would eliminate unnecessary discussions both Commercially and Contractually as those
changes give rise
to adjustment to the Subcontract price and extension the Subcontract time for Completion.
Notwithstanding the above, we hereby confirm that we have never refused an instruction and suspend
any works in
relation to such instruction and we have carried out all instructions in due diligence although the
necessary

Specification, Drawings Instruction consent or approval is not issued to the Subcontractor pursuant to
Subcontract
Clause 9.10.3 within a reasonable time taking into account the Subcontract Programme, the Contractor's
Programme
and the progress of the Subcontract Works and pursuant to Subcontract Clause 9.10.4 hereby notify you
that
Subcontractor suffers delay and/or incurs Cost as a result of a failure of the Contractor to issue the
notified
Specification, Drawing or instruction by the time and shall be entitled to extension of Subcontract Time
for Completion
and Adjustment to the Subcontract price in accordance with Subcontract Clauses 16.5 and 21.2
For the sake of argument, our letter dated 1st May 2016 has been responded by the Contractor 4
months back
however the concerns have not been properly addressed therefore remains open. Our following
concerns are hereby
repeated for your reference.
1. A proper contractual mechanism is required to define each and every aspects in respect to design
responsibility and signed by duly authorized representative of each party to be effective. Subcontract
Clause
9.20.1 applies. It is also defined under Subcontract Clause 24.3 "Contractor's Risk" and Clause 24.4
"Consequences of Contractor's Risks" applies.
"9.20.1. Any amendments to the terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall only be effective if in
writing
and signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. Any amendments to the scope of the
Subcontract Works shall be subject to the provisions of clause 20 (Variations and Adjustments)"
Contractor responded advising ANEL to raise any non-conformance. It is being carried out during the
Workshops however it does not address our above concern.
2. Design Coordination and Shop drawing Coordination are different stages. Responsibility of each is
under
different entity. We would not accept Design Coordination responsibility while having BIM coordination
and
shop drawings. We concur with your statement that the Design Consultant to take complete ownership
of the
design however no any single fully coordinated IFC have been issued so far which in turn is alarming. We
would definitely in need of "Closure" of Briefing Packs in order to obviate any ambiguities that might
arise in
a later stage. The "Closure" of Briefing Pack would only be obtained by a fully coordinated IFC drawing
issued
by the Design Consultant.
Contractor's response never happened as we have submitted lots of Shop Drawings however Design
Consultant have never issued any IFC Drawing with their title block to take complete ownership of the
Design.

Therefore we understand "Closure" of Briefing Pack has never been achieved. We do not accept signed
off sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as
part of instruction for the implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official
documentation for a variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained
in our
letter dated 1st May 2015. In respect to the timing of the issuance of the IFC drawings we are only
aware of
Design Consultant's intention to reduce the need for an extensive RFI process by the Briefing Pack
workshops.
Therefore we do not agree with your statement " ... wait for and IFC drawing from consultant ...... the
relevance
behind such works would become irrelevant I questionable ... " It contradicts to the intention of the
Briefing
Pack workshops whereby originally stated.
Contractor stated that ".The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed
previously ... " However we have not received any feedback so far. Please refer to our statement in the
4th
paragraph of this letter.
4. It is imperative to note that Briefing Packs are all received after 5th of Mar 2015 being the cut-off of
the events
for the extension of time. Therefore none of the post assigned either full time or part time for Briefing
Packs
are under our Extension of Time Submission. Therefore there is no duplication on the recovery of those
costs.
On the other hand we have been receiving time sheets recently with some of our designations crossed
being
not approved. We would expect an explanation since all the designations effectively worked in relation
with
Briefing Packs. Some of those timesheets are attached for your reference.
-Contractor's statement " ... We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of
writing
we are still within the original contract period." However at that time of writing we might have been
within
the original contract period but with increased number of resources due to such additional works with
additional cost incurred and at this time of writing we are out of original contract period and we strongly
in
demand for full preliminaries payment either incurred earlier or being due. Please also refer to our letter
Ref.
No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3761 dated 25th Sep 2016
- Additional resources assigned for Briefing Packs in relation to Planning and Commercial have never
been
approved and paid so far.

5. Should you require the shop drawings to be prepared before fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by
the
Design Consultant we would request to include the staff allocated for the revision of those shop
drawings due
to Briefing Packs in the same time sheets of each relevant workshop since again signed off sketches I
drawings
issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings does not constitute an official documentation for
a
variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Further
confirmation of Contractor is required.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
6. We have sent a valuation in respect to Briefing Pack No. 09 to verify if the changes are captured
through the
shop drawings in the absence of IFC drawings are acceptable to the Employer I Employer representative
however we have not received any feedback so far.
Contractor informed that they await determination by the Employer however we have not received
anything
yet although all cost in relation to it is incurred and overdue
7. Shop drawing approvals are the basis of any Procurement activity. Once again we do not accept
signed off
sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as part of instruction for the
implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official documentation for a
variation due
to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Therefore we do not accept
any
delay in any procurement activity unless the proper mechanism is attained. The Procurement activities
are carried out upon completion of shop drawings. Sketches would not be
appropriate tool to generate necessary take-off for such procurements. Therefore such time to prepare
shop
drawings needs to be allowed for Briefing Pack procurement activities.
8. We would be expecting urgent confirmation to our solution stated in item no. 5 above. Accordingly it
would
be easier to follow up by the Contractor if it constitutes a cost saving.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
9. Please refer to our response in item no. 6 and no. 7 above.
We have not yet received any reply to any of our Briefing Pack variation submission to verify our
valuation
submission on the basis of shop drawings in the absence of IFC Drawings.

10. The extend of the impact of the Briefing Packs are considerably massive. The way of substantiation
of those
impacts might be totally isolation of the works in relation with the Briefing Packs. This would be
obtained by
way of holding all the works in such areas that the Briefing Pack workshops are being carried out and
resuming
the activities by the approval of relevant shop drawings. An immediate confirmation of Contractor is
required
as we have been suffering a loss due to disruption caused by changes totally beyond our control and
knowledge, and put in a position to struggle to substantiate that. We would also refer to our letters ref.
no.
MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2773 dated 17th Feb 2016, MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2870 dated 7th Mar 2016 and MTBANEL-TCAL2993 dated 3rd Apr 2016 for the Briefing Pack effects on Ceiling and Slab Works.
Ou r above proposal have not been taken into account resulting in unavoidable disruption to our works
causing
additional cost that we have submitted for compensation with all our substantiation however not yet
responded.
11. Contractor confirmation is required as stated above in item no. 10.
We have not received any confirmation in relation to segregation of Time and Cost elements in the
determination process of our variations. Therefore we have been advised by %60 of the cost what is
incurred
although all the backup documents, substantiations, take-off as such are available for Engineer's review
and
determinations.
12. Briefing Packs do not fall under this definition of Variation as explained above therefore a method of
valuation
and payment is urgently required.
We have not yet experienced the same practice with Contractor's statement of " ... Briefing Packs are
changes
to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict accordance with the Sub-Contract
Clauses/Conditions ... " Therefore our concern is still valid.
13. A confirmation of Employer I Employer representative is required due to huge amount of cost
involvement
on those changes.
We do not have any intention to intervene to any parties' internal procedures however we have
concerns that
Change Management Practices are important for both determination of the valuation and payment of
the
same as special mechanisms are required such as sufficient budgeting as no reputable Companies would
allow

payment unless it is sufficiently Budgeted and such Budgets are allowed. In respect to the extent of
changes introduced through Briefing Packs, there are 86 no's of Briefing Packs received
after the first Time Extension change cut-off of 5th March 2015, 55 no's of them are having direct cost
and time impact
on our Scope of Electrical Works. They have significantly disrupted the Project Progress with continuing
effect and
jeopardized the milestones and project completion dates within our approved Programme of Electrical
Works Rev.4
prepared in accordance with Contractor Programme of Overall Works Rev. 6.2. Whilst the balance of 31
no's of Briefing
Packs are having cost and time impact to the scope of others that we do not have any knowledge how
the Programme
of Overall Works have been effected. We have prepared a time impact analysis due to such changes
beyond 5th of
Mar 2015 and demonstrated a second time extension in effect with all costs incurred till End of July
2016 and sent
through our letter with Ref. No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3654 dated 27 August 2016. This letter remains not
responded. We
have been waiting for a Programme of the Overall Works from the Contractor taking into account all the
changes
introduced beyond 5th Mar 2015 with its impact to each and every Programme of Subcontractor Works
demonstrating
further impact to our works due to others. The list of Briefing Pack is attached for your reference. This
list includes 14
no's of the Briefing Packs instructed to be kept "on Hold" until further notice through attached letter
Ref. No.
MTB/TCA/ANEL/L/003013 dated 8th Jun 2016. On the other hand we believe that those Briefing Packs
on hold will
definitely be introduced as a change in a later stage and will have serious impact on the project
completion.
In conclusion, we have been volunteered a Briefing Pack workshop process, ended up with so many
changes never
ceased, instructed through non-contractual ways, unable to administer technically, commercially and
contractually,
impacted Project Milestones and Time for Completion, caused serious disruption with additional cost
however our
attempt with substantiation of the time and cost impacts have yet to be entertained and seems refused
although we
have implemented all of those changes in due diligence. We hereby would also hold you fully culpable
for all
consequences arising out of such non contractual involvement decided on Contractors own discretion
with agreement

of the Employer out of our control and knowledge.
Therefore we do not accept any liability for any delays in the implementation of Briefing Packs due to
above reasons
and reserve our rights pursuant to 16.5 (Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion), 21.2
(Adjustment to the
Subcontract Price, 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claim).
Thanking you for your considerations
Subject: Wording for Engineers Instruction Related t o Briefing Packs
Dear Sir;
3 0 1-iAY Z016
We have received your letter referenced MTB-ANEL-TCA-l -3268 dated 1st May 2016 and respond as
follows:
Whilst we acknowledge your concerns pertaining to briefing packs and your assessment that the same
does not form part of your Subcontract Agreement, we write to confirm that this is not an opinion we
share. The Briefing Pack change is that of a variation to your contract and as such is to be valued in
accordance with the Subcontract Conditions.
In response to your letter we shall respond to the points raised respectively:
Item 1 - The subcontract documents indicate what design responsibility lies with ANEL. Any Briefing
Packs
which impact systems designed by ANEl must be checked and accepted by ANEL for full compliance. If
the
sketches do not conform to design intent then this needs raising by ANEL
Item Z - The briefing packs mechanism was created to shortcut and subsequently increase the progress
of
design works, the completed Shop Drawings & Co-Ordination thereof would be officially transmitted to
ARUP whereas they would take complete ownership of the design and subsequently publish the drawing
utilizing their own title block ultimately creating an IFC drawing.
Item 3 -The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed previously.
Item 4- ANEL should write to TCA on this issue separately with substantiation for issuance to the
Engineer
for comments, We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of writing we are
still within the original contract period. Your statement pertaining to 5th March 2015 is therefore
irrelevant.
Item 5 - Our satance remains as previously communicated, however your concerns will be issued to the
employer for hid determination in the matter. Item 6 -Your comments are noted and we await
determination by the employer for his determination in
the matter (Subcontract Agreement Clause 11.4 [Deternination]}.
Item 7 - Critical equipment needs to be procured from signed off sketches as such items are not affected
by coordination. Should ANEL have any specific concerns in relation to t his point then you can issue a
letter reffering to the isolated incident for forwarding to the Engineer.

Item 8 - Noted, see point 7.
Item 9-Noted.
Item 10-Any Claim that is persued by ANEL will include a time impact analysis" showing what e~ect each
event has had on the programme. This exercise will show the effects of the briefing packs and therefore
show the reasonable time incurred. As a matter of course such impacts should be notified and as such a
determination to halt the works should be given by the employer. There is agreement with the Em Ioyer
to
pay for abortive works if the same is incurred through change brought about through Briefing Packs,
hence
significant delays by Briefing Packs should be minimal.
Item 11-See point 10.
Item 12 - Briefing Packs are changes to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict
accordance with the Sub-Contract Clauses/Conditions.
Item 13 - It is not the business of TVA or ANEL to question the internal procedures of the Client.
We would take this opportunity however to remind you of your obligation under the Subcontract to not
delay, defer or suspend any works associated with the works_ For ease of Reference Clause 20.3
(Variation
Procedure)- Sub-Clause 20.3.11;
Clause 20.3/ Sub-Clause 20.3.11
'The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of the Subcontract
Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be affected by the
Value Engineering proposal or proposed variation) whilst the Contractor considers and/or parties discuss
and endeavor to agree the Sub-Contractors Proposal'.
In this instance you are required to implement whatever mitigation measures that are necessary to
recover delays to Briefing Pack changes, be it procurement or construction activities and a like upon
which
you are culpable. Such mitigation measures that you should consider is that of air freight however the
same is by no way limited to just this. For ease of reference;
Clause 16.4.1- Recovery of Delays
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme),
a revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set
out in
Clause 16.3 {Subcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor proposes to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract
Time
for Completion. These revised methods may include increases In the working hours and/or in the
numbers of Subcontractor's Personnel · and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The
Subcontractor shall submit such revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report within seven {7)
Days of the Contractors instruction. The Contractor may, acting reasonably, if it considers the
Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate, instruct the Subcontractor to make such
amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report as it

considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such
amendments
and/or modifications.'
All costs incurred by us with regards to your failure to adhere to your contractual obligations under the
contract will be for your account and in accordance with Clause 10.3.1 of the Subcontract Agreement.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and you will carry out the necessary as a matter
of
urgency. If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact
the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
It is with utter bewilderment and dismay that we have to write to ANEL to clarify your contractual
obligations in relation
to your adherence to contractor's instructions.
Clause 11.3.1 [Instructions of the Contractor] states "The Contractor may issue to the Subcontractor (at
any time)
instructions and additional or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the
execution of the
Subcontract Works and the remedying of any defects, all in accordance with the Subcontract. The
Subcontractor shall
comply with the instructions given by the Contractor on any matter related to the Subcontract.
Whenever practicable,
instructions shall be given in writing."
The above clause is hardly nodus and quite clearly affirms your contractual obligations to carry out
works instructed by
the contractor. It is therefore clear to see why such nonsensical responses as we have received in the
above
correspondence and a deluge of similar responses to instructions are becoming somewhat tiresome and
aggravating.
The refusal of instructions as evidenced in the above referenced letters on the grounds that a letter has
not been
responded to is both ludicrous and a breach of contract. Furthermore the letters which you refer to
within the above
correspondence have been responded to over 3 months ago (Appendix 1).
As ANEL have been instructed under the relevant subcontract clauses and are refusing to proceed with
the works stated
within, we consider this matter to be a Suspension of Works under the subcontract. ANEL have no
contractual basis
with which to suspend works and are therefore in Breach of Contract.

For the record, all costs incurred by us with regards to your illegitimate suspension will be levied against
your account in
strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) of the agreed Subcontract Agreement
between us.
The same will be subject to 15% Overhead & Profit I Administration Charges.
Subject: Alleged Disrupted MV Cable Pulling Works
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-1897 dated 91h July 2015 on the
subject matter and would respond as follows to the allegations made within.
We have carried out an internal review of your allegations I version of events with our on-site HSE Team
and would clarify for the record that we do not agree with your bias I inaccurate record of the same.
We confirm that preparation works associated with the MV Cabling Works commenced shortly after
6.00am on the morning of 9th July 2015. Our Site Safety Representative was contacted by your MV
Cabling
Subcontractor (RANYA) at 7.20am and promptly arrived at the required location at 7.30am. We were
requested to authorise the permit to work documentation and after checking the content of the same
and obtaining clarification as to the requirement of ADDC approved certification the document was
signed off. The entire procedure was carried out within a 30 minute timeframe.
We refute in its entirety your spurious allegation I claim that circa 2 Y2 hrs were lost due to downtime I
idle time in this regard. Your claim is completely baseless and without substantiation I credence in any
shape or form. We would respectively request that you concentrate your efforts on more pertinent
issues on the project as correspondences on such menial matters are not conclusive to that of a pro
active approach.
If you seek further clarification to any of the points raised within, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Alleged Delay in OC/MCR UPS rooms due to Contractor and Other Trades
Dear Sir;
We acknowledge receipt of the above referenced letter and comment as follows:
Again we find ourselves having to reply to what can only be described as a nonsensical, unnecessary and
erroneous piece of correspondence.
Nothing in this letter substantiates any delays on the project and serves only to waste the time and
resources of not only the staff ofTCAJV but also ANEL's.
Following receipt of this letter TCAJV Area Construction Manager Sinan Sezer and representatives from
ANEL and PCEJV walked the areas mentioned within your letter, where it was found that ANEL are
experiencing no such hold ups as described within your spurious letter. Our Area Construction Manager
then had to take time from his busy schedule to provide comments against the fallacious photos (most
of which are pointless and show nothing of value), These comments are attached to this letter
(Appendix 1). It has become apparent in the recently received correspondence that a decision to issue

letters in quantity rather than quality and such frivolity will not be tolerated. Any Delay Notices from
ANEL must include the following (but not limited to) information before the delay claim will be
considered, with the same in strict accordance with clause 16.5 [Extension of Time for Subcontract
Completion]
1. Detailed description of the change/delay and the quantities related (if any)
2. Reference to the relevant Activity reference on the latest applicable programme.
3. Estimated Duration of Delay and Cost Impact (If any)
4. Time Impact analysis performed to quantify the impact of delay with critical path.
5. Photos with commentary to substantiate the delays.
6. Related correspondence, drawings or specs applicable.
7. An updated delay register (this should capture all delays incurred).
8. Details of the mitigation measures taken adopted to overcome/minimise the Impact of delay.
If this information is not contained within the Notice then it shall be rejected until such delays can be
substantiated.
We trust this clarifies our position on the matter; however should you have any questions or discover
any relevant substantiation then we will be happy to investigate the matter further.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Descope of Lozenges
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (3) and your letter
referenced (4) above, find below our response for the matter subject.
Please note that, your statements in your letter referenced (4) above are in fact incorrect and show your
deliberate misinterpretation and denial of your own commitments. We refer to the Commercial Meeting
held at our Office on Thursday 09 November 2017 and in particular to your apparent refusal to proceed,
without the issuance of a revised Variation Order, with the additional works that we have instructed you
to implement, by way of Variation Order No 16.
For ease of reference, we present herewith, the history of events associated with the foregoing, in an
attempt to resolve this matter at once:
•
•
•

Variation Order 16 has been issued to Cloisall on 19th March 2017 for the “Lighting Lozenges
subsequent to the benchmark approval at L0.0” of 173 No Lozenges amounting AED
6,837,389.85;
On 24th July 2017 you have accepted the Variation order via letter referenced (5) above stating
that in case there is a cost variance in fabric requirement, Cloisall may request a revised
Variation;
TCAJV and the Employer requested you to follow the original IFC fabric requirements. However,
you have suggested and insisted on the change of fabric. The suggestion for the change was
acknowledged in several meetings with the participation of the Employer, where it was agreed
that there will be no cost and time impact;

•

Following the agreement that there will be no cost-time impact on the fabric change, you
submitted a transmittal ref MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2479 dated 30th October 2017, requesting
additional AED 3,197,094.21 for the change (an increase in the order of approximately 47% over
the amount agreed);
• On 19th November 2017, a meeting was held, where you were requested to provide a fully
substantiated cost. Unfortunately no supporting documentation have been provided to date;
• Thereafter a reduction in the quantity of the lozenges from 173 No to 10 No was requested by
the Employer;
• You have submitted ROM108 Rev02 for the 10 No of lozenges via transmittal referenced (8)
above in which the price was increased significantly from AED 1,037,855.00 to 2,371,215.62
compared to the price agreed in Variation Order 16;
• You have failed to provide the substantiation for the increase and refused to proceed on site
without the acceptance of the additional unsubstantiated AED 1,301,246.57. This demonstrates
your intention not to continue performance of your obligations under the Subcontract and
complete the works and as per Clause 22.2.2 [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor
Default], entitles us to terminate the part of the works affected;
• In addition to the above, it is also noted that, during our email correspondence (email sent by
your representative on Sunday, December 10, 2017 5:02 PM) you stated that “The initial price
was grossly underestimated by M/s. SAS and subsequently corrected in the recent submissions
based on the design development process and obtaining related costing based on the
aforementioned…”; It is noted that, even though the statement regarding the alleged
underestimation of the price has no Contractual value, due to the fact that all agreed Variation
Orders are binding under the Subcontract, nevertheless, we requested you to provide all
substantiation for review and evaluation as mentioned herein;
• Thereon, we requested you via official correspondence and several email correspondence to
submit the substantiation of the increase in price, but you failed to do so as per referenced (7)
above;
• Moreover, the lozenge benchmark has already been approved in December 2017 by the
Employer with few minor comments. The final approval has been given by the Employer to you
on 14th January 2018 after rectifications have been completed by you;
• Since the situation became critical, we issued the letter referenced (3) above, omitting the
sections of the mentioned Subcontract Works.
In light of the above explanations, please be informed that the value of the variation will be
implemented as negative AED 6,837,389.85.
The additional cost that you claim associated with the benchmark should be submitted as a separate
RFVO with full substantiation including quotations, invoices, drawings, quantity take off etc. for our
assessment and issuance of separate Variation Order.
You are hereby reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us
and/or Other Subcontractors arising as a result of failure to action Contractor’s Instructions shall be
solely at your responsibility and recoverable from you pursuant to the subcontract agreement clauses
including but not limited to 12.12.4, 16.6.1 and 22.2.4, in addition to other relevant clauses.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Descope of Lozenges
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (3) and your letter
referenced (4) above, find below our response for the matter subject.
For ease of reference, we present herewith, the history of events associated with the foregoing, in an
attempt to resolve this matter at once:
A.
The Variation Order for the “Lighting Lozenges subsequent to the benchmark approval at LO.O”
was issued to you for 173 No of Lozenges, as per reference (2) above, in accordance with the agreed
fabric specification forming part of the Variation Order;
B.
The Variation Order was accepted by you in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 with letter
reference (4) above, in which you stated that in case of a change in fabric requirement you will revise
the prices included and agreed as mentioned in Item (A) above, however this was never requested by
the Employer or ourselves;
C.
During the meetings held in the presence of the Employer you requested a fabric change for the
Lozenges from Verseidag 828100 (which is as per the Contract Specification) to ATEX 4000, where it was
agreed that there will not be any time or cost impact, in case we proceeded with the change. We
reiterate that no change was requested by the Employer or by us. Subsequently, the change request was
raised only after your suggestion, as mentioned above. Moreover, it was made clear by the Employer
and ourselves that the change could only be made only and if there was no time and cost impact,
otherwise you were requested to proceed with the original IFC fabric requirements; [attach relevant
correspondence]
D.
However, following the agreement for the fabric change as stated in Item C above, you
submitted a transmittal ref MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2479 dated 30th October 2017, requesting additional AED
3,197,094.21 for the change (an increase in the order of approximately 47% over the amount agreed).
We requested the breakdown and substantiation for the increase but you failed to provide it and
refused to proceed on site without the issuance of a VO for the additional amount requested. This
demonstrates your intention not to continue performance of your obligations under the Subcontract
and complete the works and as per Clause 22.2.2 [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default],
we are enabled to terminate the part of the works affected;
E.
Thereafter a reduction of the quantity of the lozenges from 173 No to 10 No was requested by
the Employer;
F.
After the reduction in the quantity as stated in Item E above, you submitted ROM108 Rev02 for
the 10 No lozenges via transmittal dated 7th December 2017 ref. MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2573 and letter
reference (6) above, in which by prorate comparison, the price of AED 2,371,215.62 given in the
abovementioned transmittal, was significantly increased by 248% i n comparison to the same quantity
given in the original quotation, which by way of comparison it was AED 1,037,855.00 instead. In addition
to the above, it is also noted that, during our email correspondence (email sent by your representative

on Sunday, December 10, 2017 5:02 PM) you stated that “The initial price was grossly underestimated
by M/s. SAS and subsequently corrected in the recent submissions based on the design development
process and obtaining related costing based on the aforementioned…”. This statement cannot be
accepted and as per Clause 20.3.14, once a Variation Order is agreed and issued, the points of
agreement are binding upon the Parties;
G.
Thereon, we requested you via official correspondence [attach relevant correspondence] and
several email correspondence to submit the substantiation of the increase in price, but you failed to do
so;
H.
Since the situation became critical, and you failed to substantiate the price and furthermore
failed to proceed with the works, we issued the letter referenced (3) above, omitting the sections of the
mentioned Subcontract Works.
In view of the above events, our position is as follows:
(i)
we are entitled at any time prior to the issue of the Performance Certificate to issue instructions
requiring the implementation of Variations with immediate effect [Sub-Clause 20.1.1 of the General
Conditions of Subcontract];
(ii)
we have, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.2, issued Variation Order No 16 instructing the Variation;
(iii)
you are obliged to comply with and give immediate effect to all Variations instructed or
confirmed in writing by the Contractor by way of formal Variation Order [Sub-Clause 20.1.3]
(iv)
we are obliged to proceed to agree or determine any adjustment to the Subcontract Price by
reason of the Variation [Sub-Clause 20.3.2];
(v)
Until such time as an appropriate rate or price is agreed or determined, the Contractor shall
determine a provisional rate or price for the purposes of interim payments under Schedule 11 [Payment
Terms].
Moreover, for the avoidance of any doubt, we consider that:
(a)
we have complied with all of our obligations relating to Variation Order No 16, including
agreement of the adjustment to the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 in respect of
all events occurring up to the issuance of letter reference (3) in which we de-scoped the works from you;
(b)
your failure to implement and give immediate effect to Variation Order No 16 puts you in
breach of the Subcontract and holds you liable for any and all damages arising therefrom;
(c)
you failed to provide proper substantiation as mentioned above and during our meetings and
several correspondence, thus no variation can be issued without proper substantiation;
(d)
you failed to proceed with the works on site as instructed; and
(e)
the events described in this letter and as stated by you during several meetings and
correspondences, prove that you did not intend to proceed with the works without the additional
amount approved, which is a breach of your binding contractual obligations.
If you considered that you were entitled to further adjustment to the Subcontract Price due to events
which are still unknown and unclarified to us, then subject to you following the procedure set down in
the Subcontract for Subcontractor’s Claims, we would have agreed or determined any further
adjustment accordingly.

Furthermore, in response to your letter reference (4), requesting us to provide substantiation for the
key dates and the agreed programme, please note that the key dates and the latter where given with
our letter ref MTB/TCA/ClOISAll/l/001088 dated 23 September 2017. [please confirm]
In relation to your comment requesting us to provide substantiation for the “Approval of Benchmark” as
mentioned in your letter, please be informed that it has already been verbally approved by the
Employer and you have been informed by the Engineer via {include ………………….]. Moreover the
calculation of the structural steel has been approved via Document Submittal ref DS/0401/10789-01
Document Number ref 0401-CLO-CA-C-A-0049, which means that you should have started works on site
by 26 December 2017.
Your statement that we are required to provide substantiation to “Variation to the benchmark, MEP
(ANEL) co-ordination issues, Notifications of delays issued to Cloisall” is not clear and is currently been
disregarded until further clarification.
Please note that your statement on the last paragraph of the second page, regarding the amount of the
negative VO, you are instructed to submit your Cost pursuant Clause 3 [Application for Interim
Payments] of Schedule 11 [Payment Terms]. Please note that to enable us to evaluate the works
associated with the benchmark you are instructed pursuant but not limited to Clauses 20.3.2, 20.3.3,
20.3.6 (a,b), 20.3.7 to provide a breakdown and analysis of cost for the benchmark works and the
Contractor will proceed in accordance to Clause 11.4 [Determinations], after considering the
Subcontractor’s assessment, determine the value of the cost to the execution of the works.
Lastly, you statement in the first paragraph of page 3 regarding the reference of VO No 14 for the
“Lighting Trays”, and the discount offered, we consider this to be of no contractual basis and is wholly
disregarded. The reason for this is that, “Lighting Trays works” have been issued as a VO on its own (i.e.
VO No 14). The discount provided in VO No 16 for the “Lozenges” has no contractual relevance to VO No
14. In addition to this, be informed that a discount given in a VO shall not affect the price of any other
VO in anyway. Therefore your statement that you will seek adjustments in VO No 14 for the omission of
works in VO No 16 is not accepted.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Prolongation cost submission
In the absence of responses from a number of Subcontractors, including yourselves, please can you
respond and confirm by return email to JV’s request below which was sent out on 13th July 2017?
Please advise asap by return to those cc’d above and myself when you are able to submit prolongation
cost substantiation files, and for what periods?

Your urgent response is required and appreciated.
Kind Regards,
Subject: Prolongation cost submission
Dear All Subcontractors,
In line with TCA-JV’s recent letter dated 11th May 2017, which you should now have received
concerning Subcontractor’s Prolongation Costs, please be advised you are hereby requested once again
and reminded to provide the cost substantiation files relating to those time periods as stipulated in that
letter, those being the cost months for post HoA periods from March 2015 to April 2017 (or the most
recent ‘actual cost’ month available).
Please consider once again the format, contents and structure of prolongation cost files which you were
advised of, and which you have submitted to the JV previously for the HoA period up to March 2015,
which is now required to be submitted in the same fashion, for cost months March 2015 to April 2017.
Below are the 4 attachments (once again) for guidance and formats on the prolongation costs to be
provided, which you should now be fully conversed with.
<< File: Engineer's Comments - May 2017.docx >> << File: EoT 2 Cost Summary Sheet Format - 28-05-17
Rev. 1.xlsx >> << File: PP_28-05-17_Prolongation Costs-Subcontractor_Rev_1.pptx >> << File:
Subcontract Costs - Guidelines - May 2017.docx >>
As mentioned in our letter of 11th May 2017, please note that this email is not, of itself, to be
considered as an admission of any entitlement to extension of time and/or additional payment, nor
does it constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
Please advise by return to those cc’d above and myself when you are able to submit prolongation cost
substantiation files, and for what periods?
Your immediate response is expected and appreciated.
Kind Regards,
Subject: Failure to proceed with the works
Dear Sir
We refer to the Commercial Meeting held at our Office on Thursday 09 November 2017 and in particular
to your apparent refusal to proceed with the additional works that we have instructed you to implement

(by way of Variation Order Nr. 16) pending agreement upon the related adjustment to the Subcontract
Price.
In this regard it was noted in the Meeting that whilst the adjustment to the Subcontract Price was
previously agreed via [document reference dated] in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85, you now assert
that subsequent events for which you say we are contractually liable, entitle you to a further adjustment
of the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 3,197,094.21 (an increase in the order of approximately
47% over the amount agreed).
Our position is as follows:
(i)
we are entitled at any time prior to the issue of the Performance Certificate to issue instructions
requiring the implementation of Variations with immediate effect [Sub-Clause 20.1.1 of the General
Conditions of Subcontract];
(ii)
we have (pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.2) issued Variation Order Nr. 16 dated [date] instructing
the Variation;
(iii)
you are obliged) to comply with and give immediate effect to all Variations instructed or
confirmed in writing by the Contractor by way of formal Variation Order [Sub-Clause 20.1.3]
(iv)
we are obliged to proceed to agree or determine any adjustment to the Subcontract Price by
reason of the Variation [Sub-Clause 20.3.2];
(v)
Until such time as an appropriate rate or price is agreed or determined, the Contractor shall
determine a provisional rate or price for the purposes of interim payments under Schedule 11 (Payment
Terms).
For the avoidance of any doubt, we consider that:
(a)
we have complied with all of our obligations relating to Variation Order Nr. 16, including
agreement of the adjustment to the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 in respect of
all events occurring up to and including [date of the agreement]; and
(b)
your failure to implement and give immediate effect to Variation Order Nr. 16 puts you in
breach of the Subcontract and renders you liable for any and all damages arising therefrom.
If you consider that you are entitled to further adjustment to the Subcontract Price due to events
occurring after [date of the agreement] then subject to you following the procedure set down in the
Subcontract for Subcontractor’s Claims, we shall agree or determine any further adjustment accordingly.
In the interim, we urge you to address your breach of the Subcontract by implementing Variation Order
Nr. 16 forthwith.
Subject Removal and Replacement of the Subcontractors Representative
Dear Sir;

We refer to our letter ref {2) dated 25th Sept 2017 which is written as a response to your letter Ref {1)
dated 13th Sept
2017 regarding removal and replacement of the Subcontractors representative and update its content
with the
reference to your allegations with the followings;
We once again would like to repeat that our disagreement to your allegations had been discussed in the
principle meeting held on 23rd Aug 2017 and agreed by your principles to provide necessary proofs,
justifications,
substantiation for all those allegations. However we have not seen any detail, reference and/or any
project criteria
being the ground of your following allegations except some email correspondences for the first item.
Obstructive actions/behaviors that hinders the Progress of the Contract Works
The list of Project Activities/Objectives hindered due to such actions/behaviors
The list of Contractor's instructions that the Subcontractor has shown excessive reluctance
Particular cases and its consequences where the Subcontractor has failed to comply with its
contractual obligations as a result of the above
The cases in those emails have been properly responded within the content of our letter dated 25th Sep
2017 and the
subjects are all timely acted and resolved without causing any disturbance to site progresses. On the
other hand we
pursue our contractual rights for all those cases where we incur additional costs and loses through our
variation
submissions and kindly request your assistance for the early determination with sufficient
compensation.
In conclusion once again;
Day to day email communications are utilised as obstructive behaviour whereas it is the requirement
of Sub-Contract Clause 12.11.3 {Cooperation) to report any defects or non-conformities to the
Contractor in good and sufficient time to enable the Contractor to procure the rectification of such
works without causing any delay or disruption to the Subcontractor.
12.11.2 If any part or parts of the Subcontract Works are dependent for their support or execution upon
work
being carried out by any Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors, the Subcontractor shall either
monitor
the carrying out of such work or inspect such work and report any defects or non-conformities to the
Contractor
v in good and sufficient time to enable the Contractor to procure the rectification of such works without
causing disruption to the subcontractor. Those communications are escalated to a level of dispute
creating confusion in contractual,
commercial and technical issues rather than proper regard to the Sub-Contract provoking the
communicators
Contractor's improper representations in those communication not using reasonable endeavors such

as to convene formal meetings for amicable resolutions for such conflicts in accordance with
SubContract
Clause 10.2 (Contractor's Personnel)
10.2 Contractor's Personnel: The Contractor shall use reasonable endeavors to ensure that the
Employer's
Personnel, the Contractor's Personnel, the Consultants, Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors on
the Site:
a) cooperate with the Subcontractor under clause 12.11 (Cooperation); and
b) take actions similar to those which the Subcontractor is required to take under clauses 12.14.3(a) to
12.14.3(c), and under clause 12.24 (Protection of the Environment).
The Subcontractor has not objected to any of Contractor's instruction however have drawn the
Contractor's attention to the ambiguities and/or discrepancies that might jeopardize the performance of
the Subcontractor that eventually would have adverse effect on the project.
The Subcontractor do not accept to bear the consequences of such inappropriate and inconvenient
decisions of any of Contractor's Personal and/or Representatives instructing the Subcontractor to
undertake the obligations of other subcontractor involved in the Project enforced to carry out works out
of its scope defined under Sub-Contract. Therefore the Subcontractor record Contractor's breach of
SubContract Clause 9.20.1
9.20.1 Any amendments to the terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall only be effective if in
writing
and signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. Any amendments to the scope of the
Subcontract
Works shall be subject to the provisions of clause 20 (Variations and Adjustments).
Subcontractor Representative had only met with the Employer in meetings at where Contractor
requested his attendance together with Contractor Representatives. He has never met the Employer
bypassing the Contractor.
Once again the above is not the position of Anel's representative but its Anel's position itself and hold
the Contractor
culpable for all such inappropriate and inconvenient decisions, its failure to comply with the Subcontract
Clause 9.20.1
and Clause 10.2 (Contractor's Personnel) . The Subcontractor reserves its rights for all cost and losses
that might arise
due to its consequences in accordance with Sub-Contract Clauses 9.10.4, Clause 16.5 (Extension of
Subcontract Time
for Completion), Clause 21.2 (Adjustment to the Subcontract Price, Clause 24.3.1, Item (g) (Contractor's
Risks), Clause
27.1 (Subcontractor's Claim)
We hereby would draw your attention and record that our clarifications have not been responded by
your side till date
therefore your allegation are deemed to be totally refuted and closed.
Thanking you for your considerations

Subject: Variation Order No. 91 - Engineer's Instruction No. 196A -Beam Strengthening &
Retail Hold Areas
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 91 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08789 dated 09 January 2018.
We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 91. In accordance with the enclosed RFVO Assessment sign
off, supervisory cost have been excluded for resubmission/re-evaluation on the basis that the cost
associated with these people will be paid for in full via prolongation claim for the delayed period
associated with EOTl. Should the cost of the personnel that have carried out the supervision are not
recovered via the prolongation claim due to amendment to the agreed delays period, reallocation of the
delayed period, a reduction in the claimed costs associated for these staff or any other reason, we
reserve
the right to claim, in full, all supervision costs associated with this RFVO.
Following items are not included and shall be evaluated separately
Additional costs associated with engineering, contract administration, project administration and site
supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Sewer pipeline and manholes settlement - claim under Construction All Risk Insurance Policy
Dear Sir,
As you will be aware, there is a major concern on Site due to the settlement of several sewer pipelines
and
manholes. The Contractor is currently undergoing the investigatory process in order to determine the
root
cause of the settlement.
As required in Clause 2 of Part 5 of Schedule 14, the Contractor informs the Employer that the
settlement
of the sewer pipeline and manholes is an event that may give rise to a claim under the Construction All
Risks (CAR) Insurance policy that has been provided for by the Employer.
The Contractor hereby requests that the Employer notifies the CAR Insurance policy provider in relation
to
this possible claim.
The Contractor further requests the Employer to respond to this letter, within 7 days of receipt,
confirming that the Employer has notified the CAR insurance policy provider in this regard.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Concurrent Delay
Dear Mr. Matthews,
I write in response to reference (1 ).
The definition of "Concurrent Delay" in the Contract is clear. The Contractor's interpretation of the
definition is strained and illogical. The definition does not state that both events must be on the
critical path, nor that the effects of both events must start and/or end at the same time. Where the
effects of the events start at different times and overlap, it is highly unlikely that the effects will end
at exactly the same time. There is no logical reason why the effects must do so in order that the
period of overlap be regarded as a concurrent delay. Had the Parties intended that the effects must
be critical and start and/or end at the same time, they would have said so in the definition.
There is no reason to believe that the Parties adopted the treatment of concurrent delay set out in
the 2002 edition of the SCL Protocol. The Contractor's reliance on the Protocol for present purposes
is somewhat disingenuous. The Contractor previously stated, when it suited the Contractor to take a
contrary position, that:
"In relation to the SCL Protocol, whilst the Protocol outlines its position in relation to the impact of
concurrent delay on the assessment and award of extension of time and the recovery of any time
related costs, it also does not define a specific methodology to adopt for the identification and
quantification of any such concurrent delay.
Furthermore, neither the AACE International or the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal
Project." (reference 2)
That text is clear. The Contractor's statement in paragraph (2) of reference (1) that the Employer's
previous reference to that text was "taken out of contexf' is irrelevant.
The Employer has not sought to, and does not need to, align any definition of concurrent delay in
the Abu Dhabi Government Contract (there is none) with the definition in the Contract.
The Employer reiterates that the English case law is irrelevant to the UAE jurisdiction. In any event,
it is extremely difficult to reconcile the English decisions with each other, and with decisions from
other jurisdictions such as Scotland, because each case was concerned with specific issues which
did not require the judges to express views on concurrent delay as a whole.
ADAC relies on ADAC's and the Engineer's previous correspondence on this matter. Where ADAC
has not addressed in this letter any particular issue raised by the Contractor in reference (1 ), that
should not be taken to indicate that the Employer accepts or agrees with the particular issue in
question.
Yours sincerely,
Subject: Concurrent Delay
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference 1. We have responded to any new points raised in your
letter (reference 1) in our response to the Employer's letter (reference 2).
The Contractor continues to rely upon its letter reference (3), which well states the Contractor's

position.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear sir
We write in response to the Engineer's Jetter reference (1) and the Employer's letter reference (2).
There
are couple points that the Engineer and Employer have raised in their letters that require a response.
(1) The Employer cites the "Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract" as an "excellent example of
industry practice". The Contractor disagrees that this is relevant or helpful.
a) The Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract is the Abu Dhabi Government's Construction
Contract. It is wholly self-serving for the Employer to use as evidence of an allegedly established
and agreed industry practice an affiliate's. contract. The use by one entity of their own in-house
standard form contract does not make the approach in that contract industry practice.
b) In any event, the Employer accepts that the Contract here does not treat concurrency the same
way as the Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract. According to the Employer, a
contractor operating under the Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract does not receive an
extension of time or costs for concurrent delay, whereas under the Contract here, the Contractor
receives an extension of time but no costs for "Concurrent Delay." It is thus apparent that this
was not the approach the Parties adopted. Rather, the Parties modeled the identification and
treatment of concurrent delay on widely accepted industry guidance emanating from England.
c) The Employer fails to cite any definition of concurrent delay used in the Abu Dhabi Government
Construction Contract. Further, the Employer states that "[t]here is limited binding precedent of
court decisions and limited court report. Arbitration decisions are generally confidential."
Therefore, the Employer's argument begs the question of what "concurrent delay" means under
the Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract. Nor does the Employer attempt to align the
Abu Dhabi Government Construction Contract's definition of concurrent delay with that which the
Parties used here.
d) The Employer fails to explain why the wording of Clause 1.1 is taken directly from English
precedent. It strains credulity to argue that the Parties accidentally used this precise language,
especially given the sophistication of the Parties and that the Contractor is a multinational joint
venture.
(2) Both the Engineer and the Employer reference the Contractor's letter (4) to suggest that the
Contractor has objected in the past to the use of the SCL Protocol. It is unclear what the purpose is of
that
reference. However, to be clear, the quote is taken out of context. The issue being addressed in that
letter related to the method of presentation of a concurrent delay assessment that the Engineer and
Employer insisted upon. It had nothing to do with the definition of Concurrent Delay.
Except for the points addressed above, the Contractor relies upon its letter reference (3), which
dispatches
with the remainder of the Engineer's and Employer's arguments.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Mr. Matthews,
Further to the Engineer's letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-08570 dated 22 November 2017
(reference (2) above), we write to respond to the Contractor's position on the legal interpretation of
"Concurrent Delay", which was addressed in part II of the Contractor's letter noted as (1) above.
The other issues raised by the Contractor in reference (1) have been addressed by the Engineer in
reference (2) and will not be repeated here.
1. Form of Contract
a) For the avoidance of doubt, the Contract is not derived from the Abu Dhabi Government's
Standard Form of Contract. The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated
by the Employer and the Contractor.
2. UAE Law
a) The Contractor refers to a regime under UAE law whereby costs are apportioned where
both the Employer and the Contractor cause loss, under reference to Articles 290 and 291
Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1 of the UAE Civil Code.
b) These articles are irrelevant. As the Contractor has stated itself\ this position under the
Civil Code is not mandatory and the terms of the Contract agreed by the Parties will
prevail. The raising by the Contractor of this issue in its letter is a complete irrelevance.
3. Definition of Concurrent Delay and Industry Practice
a) The definition of "Concurrent Delay" in the Contract speaks for itself. The fact that the
definition is similar to that of "true concurrent delay" as used in the SCL Protocol is neither
here nor there. The Protocol has no legal force whatsoever in England, far less in the
UAE. The Protocol cannot override the terms of the parties' contrace.
b) In any event, the Protocol recognizes that it only provides guidance on concurrency:
c) The fact that the Protocol states that true concurrent delay as defined in the Protocol is a
rare occurrence is irrelevant4
. Based on a true construction of the definition in the Contract,
Concurrent Delay either has occurred or it has not. The Contractor has failed in its
obligation to demonstrate that it has not occurred.5
4. Do Both Delays Have to Impact the Critical Path?

Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) wherein the Contractor provided its position regarding
its non-compliance with the Heads of Agreement {HOA) and the Contractual requirement to provide a
concurrency analysis. The Engineer maintains the position conveyed to the Contractor for the past two
years and reference is made to correspondence {3) to (9) above.
The Contractor's assertion that an assessment of Concurrent Delays is not relevant to EOTl is

fundamentally incorrect as per the following:
Clause 3 of the HOA states "The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full
period of extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in Schedule 16 (Milestones)
to the Extended Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto, such Costs to be substantiated as set out in
these
Heads of Agreement"
The Contractor in letter (1) provides its opinion regarding the meaning ofthe above Clause, however the
wording of the Clause is unambiguous and clear reference is made to the manner upon which the Cost is
to be substantiated, i.e. "as set out in these Heads of Agreement". The Contractor's opinion is not
supported by any provision in the HOA. In addition to Clause 3 above, Clause 23 of the HOA provides
"The Contractor's Claims for Costs shall be
evaluated and agreed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract. All Contractors'
Claims for Costs shall be notified (to the extent that this has not yet been done), particularized and
substantiated and approved or disapproved in accordance with Clause 27 of the Construction Contract".
The above Clause expresses the clear intent of the Parties for Clause 27 of the Conditions of Contract to
govern the manner by which Cost mentioned in the HOA is to submitted, assessed and substantiated.
Despite the Contractor's recent resubmission of Cost related to the HOA {6}, the concurrency analysis
remains outstanding for a circa two years and as per the Contractor's admission vide correspondence {2}
the Contractor is not willing to submit it and remains in breach of Contract.
Clause 27.2.1 of the Conditions of Contract requires the Contractor to submit a time impact analysis,
using a methodology which is acceptable to the Employer, demonstrating the effect and consequences
of the events and periods of delay relied upon by the Contractor in its claims (a Time Impact Analysis}.
The Contractor's TIAs submitted to date are not compliant with the Contract and do not include the
mitigation measures being adopted by the Contractor and a concurrency analysis.
The assessment of concurrency forms part of the Time Impact Analysis submission. The Contractor is
required to demonstrate that there are no concurrent delays caused by the Contractor as a condition
precedent to compensation for delays in accordance with the Program Project Control Requirements
{Clause 1.3.7, Contract, Schedule 12}.
The Contractor's attempt to introduce ambiguity to the prov1s1ons of the HOA and the Contract
provisions indicates bad faith as it misrepresents the clear intent of the HOA. It is notable that the
Contractor in order to support its current position, has changed its opinion regarding the SCL Delay and
Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"}. The Contractor in correspondence (2} was adamant that the
following is applicable:
"Furthermore, neither the AACE International nor the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance
which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal Project".
The Contractor appears to disregard the above statement in a futile attempt to justify that it is not in
breach of its binding contractual obligations. The Engineer maintains that the provision of a concurrency
analysis is a mandatory requirement and not discretionary. The Contractor's submissions in relation to
the HOA fail to provide an analysis that demonstrates that no concurrent delays has been caused by the
Contractor. The Contractor is aware of what is required to be included in a TIA submission since 2013 as

demonstrated in correspondence {8}.
This position has been formally communicated via the Employer's correspondence {9} in response to the
Contractor's letter {10} on the same subject.
With regard to the legal issues raised in the Contractor's letter (lL it is our understanding that the
Employer is writing separately to the Contractor in order to address them.
In light of the above, the Contractor is requested to fully address the issues raised by the Engineer and
provide a contractually compliant concurrency analysis.
Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Sir,
(1) MTC-CMA-0401-LTR-07700 dated 5 July 2017
(2) MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010852 dated 15 June 2017
(3) MTC-CMA-401-LTR-07745 dated 12 July 2017
(4) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-07698 dated 09 July 2017
(5) MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/010114 dated 12 February 2017
(6) MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/05552 dated 26 August 2015
The Engineer has variously written that the Contractor has breached its contractual obligation to provide
an assessment of Concurrent Delay as part of its Time Impact Analyses (TIAs). (E.g., references 1, 3, 4.)
As
previously explained, and repeated here, this is untrue. (Reference 2.) The Contractor's submissions are
contractually compliant. This letter explains, once again, why there were no Concurrent Delays with
respect to the period covered by the Heads of Agreement (HOA), referred to as EOT 1.
I. CONCURRENT DELAY IS IRRELEVANT WITH RESPECT TO EOT 1
As a threshold matter, an assessment of Concurrent Delay is not relevant to EOT 1. As we explained in
previous correspondence (references 2, 5), HOA Clause 3 explicitly provided that "[t]he Employer hereby
agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for
Completion of the Contra.ct Milestones" (emphasis added). As explained in previous correspondence
(reference 2), any suggestion that the Contractor now has to prove that there was no Concurrent Delay
would render this language meaningless. The question of entitlement to recover Costs, including
subissues
like Concurrent Delay, has already been resolved.
In letter (reference 1), the Engineer attempts to justify its interpretation of the HOA. The Engineer starts
with the proposition that Clause 3 of the HOA is "qualified by the requirement to substantiate these
costs
as set out in the HOA." Clauses 8 and 23 require the Contractor to substantiate the costs that it is
claiming. This means, for example, that the Contractor must provide proof of the costs that it has
incurred. The Contractor has satisfied this obligation through its various Cost Submissions.
However, the Engineer goes further and insists that, in addition, the Contractor must show a lack of
Concurrent Delay as part of this "substantiation". Recognising that the "demonstration that there are no
concurrent delays" is at least, in part, included within the "JV's showing its entitlement to a claim" the
Engineer notes that it is nevertheless "also a material constituent of TCA JV's evidence to support its

claim" {emphasis added). In other words, the Engineer considers that an assessment of Concurrent
Delay both speaks to the issue of entitlement and substantiation. As explained below, this clearly
strained and
untenable position fails as a sound matter of contractual interpretation.
The Program Project Controls Requirements document confirms the Contractor's position that
entitlement to Costs for the "full period of the extensions of Times for Completion" essentially resolves
the
issue of Concurrent Delay. Paragraph 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements document
(Extension of Time Programme) directly ties the assessment of Concurrent Delay in the TIA submissions
to
the overarching issue of entitlement to compensation for prolongation: Concurrent Delay would "render
the extension of time non-compensable". As the Engineer asserts, "any assessment of concurrent delay
(sic) is linked to the Time Impact Analysis." (Reference 3.) It follows that by recognising entitlement to
prolongation costs for the "full period of extensions to the Times for Completion" in HOA Clause 3, the
parties necessarily dealt with the predecessor question of Concurrent Delay, agreeing that there is no
Concurrent Delay and the full period of the extension of time is compensable. That is separate to the
question of substantiation of Costs. It is within that context, and with that understanding, that HOA
Clause
3 must be read.
The Engineer also asserts that entering into the HOA does not change the position that the Contractor is
not entitled to any additional cost arising from a Concurrent Delay as set forth in COC Clause 21.2.2
(Adjustments to the Contract Price) because the Employer has not waived that requirement in
accordance
with COC Clause 9.1.2 (No Waiver). This argument is wrong. HOA Clause 2 awards an extension of time.
The Engineer does not contest that this was a valid award, the effect of which is that the Employer
waived
liquidated damages under the original contractual Times for Completion for the period of that
extension.
The Engineer does not challenge that this waiver was effective because of Clause 9.1.2. By the same
token, HOA Clause 3 awards costs for the full period of time. Clause 3 does not run afoul of COC Clause
9.1.2 either.
The Engineer's arguments further ignore the overarching context of the HOA and, in particular, HOA
Clause 3. The HOA was intended to settle claims with HOA Clause 3 addressing the Contractor's
prolongation claims.1 It would be inconsistent with this purpose to suggest that the Parties left a key
issue unresolved, such as Concurrent Delay that could reduce (under the Engineer's current assessment)
the Contractor's entitlement to nil. The Contractor obviously would not have agreed to such a level of
uncertainty.
It is thus apparent that the Engineer is either trying to ignore the words "full period of the extensions of
Times for Completion" or trying to override what was agreed in HOA Clause 3 with HOA Clauses 8 and
23.
Neither result is permissible under UAE law. As elaborated further below, rules of contract
interpretation

in the UAE require that words in a contract "should be given effect rather than ignored"2 and that,
clauses
in contracts should be read to avoid creating conflicts between them.3 Given that the Engineer's
interpretation involves ignoring words and creates unavoidable conflicts, it is clearly wrong. II. THE
CONTRACTOR'S LEGAL INTERPRETATION OF CONCURRENT DELAY
The Contract is largely derived from the Abu Dhabi government's standard form contract, which, in turn,
is
a heavily modified 1999 FIDIC Red Book.
Under the Contract, the Contractor is entitled to an extension of time and Cost for all "critical delays"
that
are the result of Employer-delay events.4 However, there are rare circumstances where both the
Employer and Contractor-risk events may both be simultaneously responsible for the same critical
delays.
Recognising this, with respect to claims for extensions of time, COC Clause 16.5.4 provides that:
Where there is Concurrent Delay, the Contractor shall be entitled, ... to an extension of
the Time for Completion. 5
With respect to the Contractor's claims for time-related Costs, COC Clause 21.2.2 provides that:
[T]he Contractor shall not be entitled to any additional cost ... by reason of ... any cause
of delay which, whilst it would otherwise give rise to such an entitlement, is a Concurrent
Delay.6
This liability scheme, i.e., an extension of time but no Costs for Concurrent Delay, is found in England
and
represents a departure from UAE law, which apportions costs in the event the Contractor and the
Employer both cause the loss.7 (We note that this position under UAE law is not mandatory and that the
Parties, through their adoption of COC Clauses 1.1, 16.5.4 and 21.2.2, contracted for the use of a
different
approach.)
In turn, the Contract narrowly defines "Concurrent Delay" as:
[T]he occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event within
clause 16.5.1(a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects
of which are felt at the same time (emphasis added).8
This definition is taken directly from the industry definition of "true concurrent delay" as defined in
industry publications such as the SCL Delay and Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"):9
Contract, Clause 1.1 SCL Protocol
"the occurrence of two or more delay events at the "the occurrence of two or more delay events at the
same time, one an event within clause 16.5.l(a) to same time, one an Employer Risk Event, the other a
(c) [i.e., an Employer risk event], and the other not Contractor Risk Event, and the effects of which are
falling within those sub-paragraphs [i.e., a felt at the same time."
Contractor risk event], the effects of which are felt
at the same time." This is the narrowest industry definition of concurrent delay. Commentators have
described that a finding

of concurrent delay under this definition is a "rare occurrence"10 or an "exceptional factual"
situation.11 It
is thus apparent that the Parties intended to adopt a very narrow definition for this concept.
Applying the contractual definitions as supplemented by industry practice, the following applies:
(1) Both delays must impact the critical path: considering that COC Sub-Clause 16.5.1 refers to critical
delay to the Works,12 the reference in the same Sub-Clause to "the other [delay} not falling within those
sub-paragraphs" must mean events of the same. character (i.e. critical). If it were any other way, one
critical and one non-critical delay, then the latter could not be said to produce any comparable "effect"
on
the completion of the Works and, therefore, would not fit within the purpose of the Clause as described
above.
This is also the construction industry's understanding of this language. Industry understandings of terms
are given great weight under UAE law. UAE Civil Code provides "[t]hat which is known by custom is
equivalent to o stipulated condition"13 and "[t]he common usages of people shall have probative force
and
shall be abided by."14 Reliance on the industry's understanding of this language is especially probative
here because COC Clause 1.1 (Concurrent Delay) was taken almost verbatim from an industry definition
demonstrating the Parties' intent to incorporate this agreed industry position into the Contract.
According to the industry's understanding, only critical activities are relevant for purposes of concurrent
delay and, especially, true concurrent delay. For example, according to the SCL Protocol:
For concurrent delay to exist, each of the Employer Risk Event and the Contractor Risk Event must
be an effective cause of Delay to Completion (i.e. the delays must both affect the critical path)
(emphasis added).15
This makes sense. Broadly speaking, the Contra~t and law seek to assign the causes of, and therefore
liability for the consequences of, project duration overruns as between the Contractor and the
Employer.
There is no project duration overrun where there is delay to activities that are not on the critical path.
Delay to such sub-critical activities (i.e. activities off the critical path) will not result in the completion
date
being later than it otherwise would have been 16 or, in other words, project duration overrun. Delay to
sub-critical activities, therefore, cannot be said to be the cause of the Contractor's incurrence of extra
costs for prolongation. Take an example from this project. The Employer was late by 88 days in issuing
IFCs. (Reference 6.) This
delay meant that the Contractor was in turn delayed in commencing work on the shop drawings for
concrete works. These shop drawings were required to procure materials and install concrete works.
According to the original programme, the Contractor was also late by 26 days in awarding the
subcontract
to its steelworks subcontractor. (Reference 6.) However, the 88-day delay to concrete works created
float for the appointment of the steelworks subcontractor. The Contractor's appointment of the
steelworks subcontractor was well within the float created by that Employer-caused delay and
accordingly
was not critical. Therefore, the timing of the steelwork subcontractor's appointment did not cause delay

to completion. From the above, it is clear that delay events which affect activities that are not on the
critical path (i.e.
sub-critical events) so do not delay completion of Milestone 9B and, therefore, cannot be a Concurrent
Delay.17 (2) The "effects" of the delays must start and/or end at the same time: the definition of
Concurrent Delay
requires that the effects of the delay events are "felt at the same time." The word "same" means:
"Identical: not different".18 This means the timing of the effects of a delay must not be different.
From an industry perspective, at the very least, this means that both events must "result in the works
being completed later than would otherwise have been the case" .19 Practically speaking, that situation
can
occur only if the effects of the two events start or end at the same time. If one event leads to a critical
delay that is felt first in time, a second event whose effects are felt second in time cannot result in the
works being completed later than would otherwise have been the case. The delay effects of the second
event are sub-critical. The exception is where, viewed retrospectively, the effects of that second event
cease at the same time as the effects of the first event, in which case from the point when the effects of
the second event commenced, the two events are simultaneously resulting in the works being
completed
later than would otherwise have been the case. Conversely, if the effects of that second event cease
after
the effects of the first event cease, the two effects are not "felt at the same time". Instead, in that
scenario, there is no Concurrent Delay, but rather the first event is causing critical delay until its effects
cease and then the second event causes critical delay until its effects cease.
(3) The delay events must occur at "at the same time": if the effects of the delay events are felt at the
same time (as defined above), then we further assess whether the delay events occurred "at the same
time". This is a factual question.
Ill. A lACK OF CONCURRENT DELAY HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED
Time impact analyses, by their very nature, provide an assessment of Concurrent Delay.
In TIAs, delay events are introduced into the analysis in strict chronological format. For complex
projects,
such as this one, the delay events are usually introduced collectively in particular periods/windows (so,
for
example, all events which arose in April 2015, would be inserted into the then current (host) programme
for analysis). The events are inserted into the analysis in the form of fragnets, and the collective impact
of
the introduced events is modelled. ·
To determine if any of the events in the period/window is critical, the programmer determines if the
introduction of delay events for a period/window produced an incremental delay to the completion date
that was identified in the host programme before the introduction of the delay events. If the completion
date moves, then an event in that period was critical. In that case, a further analysis must be done to
determine which of the events entered for that month is (or are) critical. However, if the completion
date
does not move, then none of the events entered for that period are critical.

On the basis of this, the Contractor has determined, and certified in its TIAs, that only Employer-culpable
events have driven the critical path for EOT1. IV. CONCLUSION
For the above reasons, in the period covered by the HOA (i.e., EOT 1), there is no critical delay caused by
the Contractor, there is no Concurrent Delay and the Contractor has not failed to demonstrate that
there
are no Concurrent Delays caused by the Cor~tractor. The Contractor is therefore entitled to its
substantiated costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract
Milestones in the HOA. The Contractor asks the Engineer to accordingly issue his determination
regarding
the Contractor's claim for prolongation in the EOT 1 period.
Subject: Post Heads of Agreement Concurrency Review up to 1 January 2017
Dear Sir,
Further to recent discussions between representatives of the Contractor and the Employer I Engineer,
the
Contractor herewith provides proposed timetables for the preparation of a detailed concurrency review
for the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017. These are attached hereto.
In order to undertake the concurrency review exercise in parallel with the preparation of the revised TIA
submissions (also requested by the Employer I Engineer), the Contractor proposes the adoption of a
'Windows' form of delay analysis to establish the existence of any concurrent Contractor (i.e. culpable)
delay in the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017.
The 'Windows' methodology will utilize 'Cleaned Up' versions for the Contractor's monthly updates a
predefined
time slice periods.
The 'Windows' methodology establishes the progressed status of the works at the start of the time slice
period and then the progressed s.tatus of the works at the conclusion of the time slice period.
Once the status of the works at the start and conclusion of the time slice period has been established
then
. the programmes can be investigated to identify those specific activities giving rise to critical delay to
the
various Project Milestone during the time slice period.
This process will establish which part'r' is responsible for the critical delay, and in so doing, will also
identify, what if any period of critical delay is deemed to be a Contractor concurrent culpable delay.
It should be noted that accuracy of such a Concurrency review is governed by the duration of the time
slice periods. The greater the time slice periods the less accurate the conclusions will be.
The Contractor has provided 3 time slice option for consideration, these being 1 month, 2 month and
3 month time slice periods.
Based upon the provided timetables, the concurrency review exercise will be complete as follows;
1 month Time Slice periods- 8 October 2017;
2 month Time Slice periods- 23 July 2017; and
3 month Time Slice periods- 25 June 2017;

The three options and associated timetables are provided for the Employers I Engineer's consideration
and the Contractor requests the Employer I Engineer to confirm which time slice period is to be adopted
so the exercise can commence.
Yours faithfully,
Subject The Contractor's Presentation of "Concurrent Delay" dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the Contractor's
Presentation of "Concurrent Delay" dated 18 January 2017.
The Engineer reiterates the contractual requirement for the Contractor to provide an analysis that
demonstrates concurrent delay. Thus, the Contractor's statement that, "the concurrent delay
assessment methodology was done so purely out of courtesy to the Employer" has no contractual basis
and is wholly disregarded by the Engineer.
The Heads of Agreement (HoA) dated OS March 2015, clearly states that the Contractor's Claim for Cost
shall be evaluated and agreed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract,
specifically in this regard, Clauses 16.5.1 (a) to (c), 21.2.1 Conditions of Contract and 1.3.7 of the Project
Control Requirements. As you are aware, until or unless the Contractor complies with its contractual
obligations, it is not entitled to any compensation whatsoever for prolongation costs under the HoA.
The Contractor states that "it was anticipating providing such presentation to representatives of the
Employer only and was not anticipating the attendance of the Engineer". The relevance of this comment
is not clear. Regardless of whether or not the presence of the Engineer was anticipated should not affect
the Contractor presentation in anyway. The Contractor is aware that the Engineer is authorized to
administer the contract and as such the attendance of the Engineer would surely not be unexpected at
all meetings that, at a minimum, relate to contractual or commercial issues.
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's opinion that the points raised via correspondence (2) do
not represent a true and accurate record of the Contractor's presentation and comments as follows:
The Contractor implies that there is no connection between Time Impact Analysis and concurrent delay
and asserts that the purpose of the presentation was to present the methodology adopted for the
assessment of the concurrent delay.
According to the Contract, and in particular, Clauses 16.5.4, 21.2.2, 27.1, 27.2.2 of the Conditions of
Contract and Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Control Requirements, concurrent delay is expressly
linked to and part of the Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA).
Further, during the meeting referred to above, the Employer representatives when commenting on the
Contractor's methodology of Delay Analysis, made specific comments to the Time Impact Analysis and
the Contractor at no time during the meeting raised any objections in this regard.
The Engineer's opinion that the TIA methodology presented was confusing and complicated remains
unchanged. The Contractor's TIA methodology as presented was complicated and confusing. Your
representative spent some time in trying to explain the process of extracting data from Primervera and
then importing it into EXCEL and then exporting to MS Access in order to analyse and modify the data
and then reverse the process to capture it in Primavera. This is per se; unquestionably complicated by
any measure.

The Contractor's statement that "there was no reason to issue any supporting TIA submission pursuant
to Clause 27 of the Conditions of Contract", is not aligned with the terms of the HoA. It has been
recorded on numerous occasions in previous correspondence that according to Clause 23 of the Heads
of Agreement, the Contractor's Claims shall be evaluated and agreed in accordance with the
Construction Contract. Again, within the contents of this letter, the relevant contract clauses relat ing to
evaluation are restated.
Notwithstanding the Contractor alleges that its Consolidated Submission on 27 August 2015 was
provided "to assist in the successful conclusion of the financial negotiations in relation to the Heads of
Agreement", the dates referred to in this correspondence especially in relation to the Piers, are not
aligned with the HoA dates and indicate different completion dates than the dates stated in the HoA
(Appendix 1). The Contractor's submission was in fact seeking an extension of time to Milestones 9A and
9B.
Within its submission of 27 August 2015, the Contractor added fifty (50) new milestones to the
approved
Baseline programme, without prior approval by the Engineer. As you are aware, this unapproved
practice causes the logic of the programme to be altered and corrupts the original programme logic.
These same comments were also highlighted during the presentation by both the Engineer and the
Employer.
In relation to the Contractor's comments pertaining to the independent third party, it is fact that this
'party' is employed and accountable to the Contractor and by definition is not 'independent'.
The Engineer reiterates the statement made in correspondence (2) relating to the Contractor's failure to
finalize the analysis of Contractor concurrent delay. The Contractor is aware, of its contractual
obligation, when substantiating its claim to an extension of time and associated additional Cost, it must
as part of such substantiation include an analysis of Contractor concurrent delay. Until and unless this
requirement is complied with in accordance with the contract, the Contractor's entitlement for
compensation for prolongation cannot be evaluated.
Therefore, the Contractor is urged to address the issues raised above in order to comply with its
obligations under the Contract.
Yours faithfully

Subject: The Contractor's Presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes with reference to the receipt on 31 January 2017, of the Engineer's letter dated
30
January 2017 (reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737), regarding the Contractor's Presentation of
'Concurrent Delay' made to the Employer and the Engineer on 18 January 2017.
Prior to addressing the issues raised therein, the Contractor wishes to reiterate its position in relation to
the purported requirement to assess any concurrent delay under the Heads of Agreement.
Point 3 of the Heads of Agreement expressly states that the Employer "agrees to reimburse the
Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions of Time" [emphasis added], thereby unequivocally

negating any requirement to establish any concurrent delay for the period up to 5 March 2015.
Nevertheless, the presentation by the Contractor of the Contractor's concurrent delay conclusion and
subsequent presentation on its concurrent delay assessment methodology was done so purely out of
courtesy to the Employer following a direct request by the Employer for the Contractor to do so.
With this in mind, the Contractor was anticipating providing such presentation to representatives of the
Employer only, and was not anticipating the attendance of the Engineer. It transpired that the Engineer
was invited to attend by the Employer but the Contractor was given to understand that such attendance
was to be in an observational capacity only. Hence it is with great surprise and disappointment to find
that the Engineer has chosen to enter into correspondence on this matter.
Furthermore, whilst the Contractor was only too willing to provide both the Employer and Engineer a
detailed presentation on the methodology adopted to assess the concurrent delay, at a subsequent
meeting arranged on 19 January 2017, the Engineer was afforded the same opportunity to present a
similar detailed presentation regarding its own methodology adopted to assess the concurrent delay.
In the event however, the Engineer's 'presentation' was limited to providing a very simplistic overview
of
the methods adopted by him to assess the Contractor's concurrent delay, and when pressed further by
the Employer to present this assessment in more detail, the Engineer refused. ·
Notwithstanding this, the Contractor herewith provides the following detailed response to each point
raised by the Engineer in his letter dated 30January 2017 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737):
The second paragraph of the Engineer's letter states:
"The Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA} Methodology outlined at the meeting is not accepted by
the Engineer'
With reference to the above statement, the Contractor responds as follows:
It is unclear the context in which the Engineer makes reference to 'Time Impact Analysis (TIA)
Methodology'. The presentation provided by the Contractor on 18 January 2017 addressed only the
methodology adopted to assess concurrent delay and NO reference was made in the presentation to
any Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology.
Furthermore, reference within the Contract Documents to a TIA is done so only in relation to the
establishment of an Extension of Time, and whilst the Contract Documents do state the requirement
for the Contractor to demonstrate the existence, or otherwise, of concurrent delays that are the
responsibility of the Contractor, the Contract Documents do not define the methodology which should
be adopted for such an assessment, or how such an assessment should be presented.
As such, the Engineer's reference to 'Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology' is not a true and
accurate record of the Contractor's presentation as, for the reasons stated above, no reference was
made to the TIA methodology within the presentation given by the Contractor.
Under Item (a) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor's Methodology is unnecessarily complicated compared to the traditional and widely
recognized Window analysis technique and it does not conform to any recognized method of delay
analysis by any practice such as the SCL or AACE International."
The Contractor responds to Item (a) as follows:
The Contractor does not agree that the methodology adopted is 'unnecessarily complicated'. In fact,
the methodology has been presented to others who found the methodology easy to follow and easily

understandable. The fact the method seems complicated is a direct consequence of the complex
nature of the Project, the approved Clause 16.3 Contract Programme and magnitude of change
instructed by the Engineer, which continues to this date.
In addition, at no stage of the presentation or subsequent discussions between the Contractor,
Employer and the Engineer, was the topic of the SCL Protocol or the AACE International raised. As
such, any reference to such documents in the Engineer's letter does not represent a true and accurate
record of the Contractor's presentation.
However, during the subsequent discussions between the Contractor, Employer and the Engineer, the
Contractor was asked if the methodology presented had been used successfully on other projects. The
Contractor stated that the same methodology had been used successfully on a number of major
projects such as the new Doha International Airport, the Dubai Mall, and recently on the Dubai Parks
and Resort development in Dubai.
With reference to the 'Window analysis technique' raised in the Engineer's statement, the Contractor
accepts it is one of a number of recognised delay analysis techniques, but is generally a prospective
form of delay analysis used to establish extensions of time by contractor's, and is not the preferred
method of delay analysis defined within the Contract Documents.
In relation to the AACE International Recommended Practice for Forensic Schedule Analysis, reference
is made within the document to the 'Identification and Quantification of Concurrent Delays', but the
document does not go on to define a specific method of analysis which should be adopted to identify
and quantify such concurrent delays. In fact, the document recommends the review of an 'As-built
Critical Path' to identify any concurrent delays.
By definition, an 'As-built Critical Path' can only be truly established once ALL works are complete. As
the Midfield Terminal Project remains on-going concern, no true 'As-built Critical Path' can be
established and, as such, the practice defined under the AACE International cannot be applied.
In relation to the SCL Protocol, whilst the Protocol outlines its position in relation to the impact of
concurrent delay on the assessment and award of extension of time and the recovery of any time
related costs, it also does not define a specific methodology to adopt for the identification and
quantification of any such concurrent delay.
Furthermore, neither the AACE International or the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal
Project.
Under Item (b) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"It was not made clear by the Contractor why it is necessary to extract the data from Primavera to MS
Excel and then to MS Access and then back to Primavera. Primavera is the approved programming
software and is capable of performing all the required analysis. It is the Engineer's opinion that this
chosen approach by the Contractor unnecessarily increases the risk of errors occurring and confuses
the analysis."
The Contractor responds to Item (b) as follows:
As with many statements made in the Engineer's letter, this statement is wholly inaccurate and, again,
does not represent a true and accurate record of the Contractor's presentation.
In fact, during the presentation the Contractor went to great length to explain the reasons why the

data was extracted from Primavera and analysed in MS Access.
Furthermore, at numerous stages throughout the Contractor's presentation, reference was made back
to the relevant Primavera programme activities to demonstrate that at any given stage, the data
analysis undertaken within MS Access was accurately modelling the data contained within the
corresponding Primavera analysis programme.
In the presentation, the Contractor also made reference to the numerous artificial constraints and the
use of numerous Project Calendars within the Primavera programmes which would, in fact, render any
data filtered and identified directly within the Primavera programmes in relation to delay (negative
float value) inaccurate.
Under Item (c) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has introduced new Milestones and Constraints to the baseline programme for the
CSP and Piers without the approval from the Engineer. Contractually this is non-compliant and
currently not accepted."
The Contractor responds to Item (c) as follows:
Under the Heads of Agreement signed on 5 March 2015, the Contractor had already been granted an
Extension of Time to 31 July 2017, a period of 310 calendar days.
As such, there was no reason to issue any supporting TIA submission pursuant to Clause 27 of the
Conditions of Contract.
As stated within the cover letter of the Contractor's Consolidated Submission dated 27 August 2015,
the submission was provided to assist in the successful conclusion of the financial negotiations in
relation to the Heads of Agreement, and was not a submission seeking an Extension of Time as this
was already awarded prior to the submission of the Contractor's Consolidated Submission dated 27
August 2015.
Subsequent to the signing of the Heads of Agreement, the Engineer issued numerous correspondence
defining the level of detailed substantiation required to assess the costs associated with the Heads of
Agreement.
In relation to time related costs, such as Prolongation and Acceleration I mitigation, the Engineer,
through a series of correspondence, requested such cost substantiation include the location where
the costs were actually allocated (CPA or Piers) be identified.
As such, to conform to the request of the Engineer, additional monitoring milestones for both the CPA
and Piers were added to the analysis programmes to assist in the cost substantiation and allocation.
Under Item (d) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has deleted many activities without the agreement and approval of the Engineer,
again this is contractually non-compliant and currently not accepted."
The Contractor responds to Item (d) as follows:
At no stage within the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' was any reference made to
deleting activities from the programme schedule. This is yet another failure of the Engineer to
accurately record the details of the presentation.
In fact, the Contractor explained that removing the data from the Primavera schedule and analysing
within MS Access allowed changes to be made to the data without affecting the integrity of the
submitted Primavera schedules for which limited 'undo' facilities are available when changes are
made to the programme schedule.

The Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' further went on the detail the process used to
identify certain activities which did not warrant further consideration with in the individual monthly
analysis periods that could be eliminated, not deleted, from the extensive list of programme activities
requiring further investigation within the individual monthly analysis periods to assess whether they
be Employer or Concurrent Contractor delays.
Under Item (e) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has disregarded the Contractor delays that exist in and evidenced within the records of
correspondences I minutes of meetings etc."
The Contractor responds to Item (e) as follows:
During the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' the Contractor went to great length to
explain that once a certain number of pre-defined criteria had eliminated activities from the extensive
listing of activities to review during each individual analysis period, the remaining activities were then
reviewed against the contemporaneous site documentation to establish liability for the individual
activity delay, thus establishing if the delay be Employer or Concurrent Contractor delays.
As stated during the Contractor's presentation the documents reviewed as part of the concurrency
assessment included, but were not limited to:
Correspondence between the Employer and Contractor;
Correspondence between the Engineer and Contractor;
Correspondence between Subcontractors and the Contractor;
Engineer's Instructions;
Engineer's Bulletins revising IFC Drawings;
Minutes of Meetings between various parties;
Requests for Information (RFI's)
Shop Drawing Submissions;
Material Submissions;
Method Statements;
Variation Orders;
Requests for Variation Orders;
NCR's;
Inspection Requests;
Contractor Instructions; and
Verbal Instructions.
As such, the Engineer's inference that the Contractor did not take cognizance of contemporaneous
site documentation is untrue and the statement made by the Engineer is not a true and accurate
record of the Contractor's presentation.
Under Item (f) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor stated "there are some concurrent delays" but failed to demonstrate how this was
calculated and did not provide an explanation why the concurrency analysis, which is required as part
of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized."
The Contractor responds to Item (f) as follows:
During the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay', the Contractor went to great length to
explain the specific methodology used to establish the cause, and the extent of concurrent delays for

the month of April 2014.
Therefore, for the Engineer to state that the Contractor 'failed to demonstrate how this was
calculated' is a further demonstration of the inaccurate recording of the Contractor's presentation by
the Engineer.
The Engineer goes on to state in his letter that the Contractor 'did not provide an explanation why the
concurrency analysis, which is required as part of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized."
It can only be assumed that the TIA submissions referenced by the Engineer relate to those
submissions issued by the Contractor in the period after the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
The Contractor's presentation and all the subsequent discussions related to the period up to the
signing of the Heads of Agreement, and there were no discussions in respect of the period subsequent
to the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
As such, the Contractor was neither requested to, nor provided, any explanation to the concurrency
analysis for those TIA submissions issued after the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
Under Item (g) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor's independent third party expert appears to have simply agreed with the Contractor's
analysis and has not submitted an independent report on the matter of Concurrency"
The Contractor responds to Item (g) as follows:
The Contractor's independent third party expert is exactly that, independent.
The Engineer has not been privy to the numerous and lengthy discussions between the Contractor and
the independent third party expert, neither has the Engineer been privy to the numerous and lengthy
discussions between the independent third party expert and the Employer.
As such, the statement made by the Engineer is extremely un-professional and the Contractor
requests such a statement be formally withdrawn.
The Engineer's letter goes on to make reference to the Contractor's Consolidated Delay Analysis
Submission dated 27 August 2015, specifically paragraph 5.28 and 5.29, as follows:
"The results of the analysis for each delay event in each monthly delay analysis period are classified
into 3 categories. This will, the Contractor hopes assist the Engineer to reach a speedy determination of
the financial implications of the delays to section of the Work'~ [emphasis added] does not provide any
such assistance whatsoever to the Engineer due to the fact that the Contractor has failed to
demonstrate any 'culpable delay' or 'unallocated delay' as asserted, in its CDA submission."
The Contractor responds to the above as follows:
The extract provided by the Engineer is only an extract from paragraph 5.28.
In reality what the Contractor's Consolidated Delay Analysis Submission dated 27 August 2015
demonstrates, is that upon the conclusion of the analysis there were no critical 'culpable delays' or
critical 'unallocated delays'.
Furthermore, as the terms of the Heads of Agreement already grant an extension of time and does not
require any assessment of concurrency, then reference to any delay other than the dominant critical
delay is irrelevant.
With reference to the concluding paragraph of the Engineer's letter, the Contractor wishes to break the
Engineer's statement into individual elements and respond to each.
The Engineer opens the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"We trust this is a true and accurate record of the presentation"

The Contractor responds as follows:
The Contractor strongly rejects this statement.
It is clearly evident from the Contractor's responses herein that the information provided under the
Engineer's letter is far from a "true and accurate record of the presentation".
The Engineer continues the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"we note for record purposes that the new approach adopted by the Contractor in this presentation to
evidence the existence or not of any concurrent delays differs significantly from the previous approach
adopted in the previously submitted Consolidated Delay Analyses where no concurrent delays due to
the Contractor have been evidenced and is contrary to the current approach the Contractor has
presented in identifying areas/periods during the course of the Works where the Contractor was
culpable for some of the delays."
The Contractor responds as follows:
As previously stated, the Contractor's presentation was given out of courtesy at the request of the
Employer to provide the findings of an internal assessment of concurrent delay undertaken by the
Contractor in the event of any future dispute in relation to the Heads of Agreement.
Whist t he conclusions of the concurrency review and the methodology behind the concurrency review
have been presented to the Employer and Engineer, it is not the intention at this time to issue the
detailed report to either the Engineer or Employer for future comment.
The Contractor's previously stated position remains that point 3 of the Heads of Agreement clearly
states that the Employer "agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions
of Time" [emphasis added], therefore, negating any requirement to establish any concurrent delay for
the period up to 5 March 2015.
As such, there was no need in the submission issued in support of the Heads of Agreement to provide
any form of concurrency analysis.
In relation to those TIA submissions issued for delays occurring after the signing of the Heads of
Agreement, the Contractor has demonstrated within the provided analysis programmes that there is
no further critical delay attributable to the Contractor's own progress of t he works.
This can be evidenced by comparing the Heads of Agreement Milestone Completion dates in the
'Progressed' analysis programme with the preceding 'Impacted' analysis programmes.
Furthermore, for clarity, in the '6th Post Heads of Agreement Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events
between 2 January 2016 and 1 April 2016' the Contractor states within the narrative that:
"in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements, Clause 1.3. 7, the Contractor
confirms no concurrent delays caused by the Contractor were identified within the delay
analysis"
Following the review of the Contractor's TIA submissions for delays occurring after the signing of the
Heads of Agreement by the independent third party expert, it has been suggested a more
comprehensive assessment of concurrent delay is required.
The Contractor intends to adopt the methodology presented to the Employer and Engineer to identify
and assess any concurrent delays for future TIA submissions.
The Engineer then continues the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"the Engineer welcomes the principle of admitting the Contractor own delays within the analysis which
is what is required under the Contract and as a pre-requisite before any compensation can be

finalized"
The Contractor further responds as follows:
The Contractor has never denied the existence of its own delays during the execution of the Project
works. However, as stated at the outset, on the basis of the previously reference point 3 of the Heads
of Agreement document, the existence, or otherwise, of any Contractor delay in the period up to the
signing of the Heads of Agreement is deemed irrelevant as 'full' time and costs have been granted
under the Heads of Agreement.
For those TIA submissions issued in support of delay events after the signing of the Heads of
Agreement, whilst the Contractor has identified sub-critical delays which may be attributed to the
Contractor, the Contract does not state that the identification of the 'Contractor's own' delays is a
pre-requisite, but the identification of any 'Concurrent Delay' caused by the Contractor is a prerequisite.
Therefore, such delays should meet the definition of 'Concurrent Delay' under the Contract
which defines 'Concurrent Delay' as:
"the occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event within clause
16.5.1{a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects of which are
felt at the same time" [emphasis added].
It is the Contractor's current position that any Contractor delay identified within the TIA's issued in
support of delay events after the signing of the Heads of Agreement do not conform to the definition
of 'Concurrent Delay' as defined under the contract.
Furthermore, the identification of any 'Concurrent Delay' caused by the Contractor is only a prerequisite
for financial compensation. This should not prevent the Engineer from making an assessment
of any Extension of Time for which the Contractor is required.
The terms of the Heads of Agreement, it does in fact set the precedent for awarding an Extension of
Time in advance of any agreement of the associated costs.
The Engineer concludes the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"This presentation supports the Engineer's stand that all previously submitted CDAs are not in
compliance with the Contract requirements"
The Contractor responds as follows:
The Contractor again states, as it has done in numerous previous correspondence on this issue, that all
its submitted Consolidated Delay Analysis (CDAs) are in compliance with the Contract and the
Engineer continues to make global references to the Contract without providing his detailed
interpretation of the relevant Contract clauses.
What the presentation did demonstrate, however, is that should the Engineer not agree with the
Contractor's submitted position in relation to an Extension of Time entitlement and Concurrent Delay,
it has been provided with more than sufficient information to make its own assessment and
recommendation, which to date it has failed to do so.
The Contractor believes the above to be self-explanatory and that it fully addresses each of the points
raised by the Engineer within its letter dated 30 January 2017 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737}.
As the above proves, it is unfortunate that the Engineer has found it necessary to present a misguided
view of the meeting held on 18 January 2017 amongst others, and is again urged to focus his attention
on

reviewing the Contractor's various CDAs submitted to date, which the Contractor maintains is of
sufficient
detail to enable the Engineer to award interim Extensions of Time [emphasis added].
Yours faithfully,
Subject The Contractor Presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
Following the Contractor Presentation of 'concurrent delay' made to the Employer and the Engineer
on Wednesday 18 January 2017 we wish to record the following points ahead of any formal
submission by the Contractor.
The Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology outlined at the meeting is not accepted by
the Engineer due to the following:
a. The Contractor's Methodology is unnecessarily complicated compared to the traditional and
widely recognized Window analysis technique and it does not conform to any recognized method
of delay analysis by any practice such as the SCL or AACE International.
b. It was not made clear by the Contractor why it is necessary to extract the data from Primavera to
MS Excel and then to MS Access and then back to Primavera. Primavera is the approved
programming software and is capable of performing all the required analysis. It is the Engineer's
opinion that this chosen approach by the Contractor unnecessarily increases the risk of errors
occurring and confuses the analysis.
c. The Contractor has introduced new Milestones and Constraints to the baseline programme for
the CSP and Piers without the approval from the Engineer. Contractually this is non-compliant
and currently not accepted.
d. The Contractor has deleted many activities without the agreement and approval of the Engineer,
again this is contractually non-compliant and currently not accepted.
e. The Contractor has disregarded the Contractor delays that exist in and evidenced within the
records of correspondences / minutes of meetings etc.
f. The Contractor stated "there are some concurrent delays" but failed to demonstrate how this
was calculated and did not provide an explanation why the concurrency analysis, which is
required as part of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized.
g. The Contractors independent third party expert appears to have simply agreed with the
Contractors analysis and has not submitted an independent report on the matter of Concurrency.
Further to the meeting and in regard to the Contractor's CDA Submission date 27 August 2015, the
contention of the Contractor stated in Para 5.28 and 5.29 that;
''The results of the analysis for each delay event in each monthly delay analysis period are
classified into 3 categories. This will, the Contractor hopes~ assist the Engineer to reach a
speedy determination of the financial implications of the delays to section of the Work",
[emphasis addedt does not provide any such assistance whatsoever to the Engineer due to the
fact that the Contractor has failed to demonstrate any 'culpable delay' or 'unallocated delay' as
asserted, in its CDA submission.
We trust this is a true and accurate record of the presentation and we note for record purposes that

the new approach adopted by the Contractor in this presentation to evidence the existence or not of
any concurrent delays differs significantly from the previous approach adopted in the previously
submitted Consolidated Delay Analyses where no concurrent delays due to the Contractor have been
evidenced and is contrary to the current approach the Contractor has presented in identifying
areas/periods during the course of the Works where the Contractor was culpable for some of the
delays. Although the above points will need to be addressed, the Engineer welcomes the principle of
admitting the Contractor own delays within the analysis which is what is required under the Contract
and as a pre-requisite before any compensation can be finalized . This presentation supports the
Engineer's stand that all previously submitted CDAs are not in compliance with the Contract
requirements.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Concurrent Delays of Fire Sealant in L0.1
Dear Sir,
Further to issuance of our letter reference MTB-TCA-ANEL-L-003718 dated 28 December 2016, we again
would like to emphasize the poor fire sealant progress. At this juncture, no manpower has been
assigned
for this level to progress the fire sealant as an example of this poor progress. Appendix 1 for this
instance
clearly shows some areas you should have had progress thus far. This failure, in spite of the fact that you
have been noticed for the open front areas continues today with no respite (See Appendix 2).
You are instructed to expedite the process with due expectation.
We trust we have made our position clear in this matter and you are instructed to carry out whatever
mitigation measures necessary to remedy I rectify this situation caused by your reluctance to comply
with
your contractual obligations of which we find you completely culpable.
Consequently, you are instructed to provide a detailed recovery plan for the remaining activities
completion in strict accordance with that of clause 16.4.1 (Recovery of Delays). Moreover, we hold you
completely culpable for all costs and/or delays incurred and the same will be levied against your account
in accordance to Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims). If you seek further. clarification to any of the points
raised within this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: likely Delay Notice No. 1885- Engineer's Instruction No. 350F- Briefing Pack
Dear Sir,
The Contractor hereby submits this Likely Delay Notice No. 1885 in accordance with the requirements of
Clause 16.3.5 of the Conditions of Contract, in consideration that t he sketches and other information
attached to El No. 350F, as developed by the relevant Briefing Pack (namely Briefing Packs 2, 6 & 23, 13,
31, 38, 39, 40 and 45}, may adversely affect or delay the design and I or execution of the Works.
1.0 Basis of Notice
Background

1.1 On 20 September 2015 (letter dated 17 September 2015, ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/ L/005725}, the
Contractor issued the Engineer 'Briefing Packs Signed Document Record Sheets' (principally
relating to Briefing Packs 2, 6 & 23, 13, 31, 38, 39, 40 and 45}, covering the sketches and Change
Management Information Requests (CMIRs) generated [by the Change Management Team] in th~
period between 3 September and 15 September 2015 (comprising a mix of inter alia 30%, 60% and
90% signed off Record Sheets).
1.2 The Contractor stated that attachments were issued for the "required actions in preparation of the
necessary IFC and Engineer's Instructions". The Contractor further noted that some of the signed
document dates may slightly differ from the cut-off date due to a time gap between the actual
signatures and uploading [the sketches and so forth] into the file transfer protocol server.
Nonetheless, the Contractor concluded that it was "proceeding concurrently in good faith with the
subsequent works on the basis of these sketches".
El No. 350F
1.3 Subsequent to which, on 1 October 2015, the Contractor received the Engineer's letter dated 28
September 2015 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-04375}, attaching Engineer's Instruction (E I} No.
350F, which instructs the Contractor, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 20.1 .1 (a), " ...
to implement the works shown on the attached drawings (CD and contents list attached}, as
developed by the relevant Briefing Packs."
1.3.1 Contrary to the Engineer's statement, the attachments to El No. 35FD consists of marked
up sketches as opposed to "drawings", and were certainly not marked up IFC Drawings.
1.4 Attached to El No. 350F was 1 CD containing the various sketches and other information recorded
in Attachment A thereto, which the Contractor summarizes in Annex A hereto.
1.5 According to El No. 350F, "this [Instruction] contains documents listed in [the Contractor's] letter
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/005725, dated 17 September 2015". However, the Contractor notes that not
all of the documents attached to the Contractor's letter dated 17 September 2015 (ref: 005725)
were released under El No. 350F, in so far as the attachments to letter ref: 005725 consisted of
183 Nos. of sketches and documents, whilst El No. 350F only released 39 Nos. signed sketches.
Summary
1.6 At this stage it is not known whether or to what extent the sketches released under El No. 350F
correlates with the same Briefing Pack design intent information reflected within the 'MTB Bulletins 145-150 + Briefing Packs' schedule attached to the Heads of Agreement, and if (1) it is
deemed to be included and has no impact upon the Works, or (2), is in excess of and I or in
addition to the design intent, giving rise to potential additional entitlement to extensions of time.
1.7 Consequently, until such time as this is determined, the Contractor issues this Likely Delay Notice
No. 1885 on the premise this 'event' or set of circumstances has the potential to delay the design
and I or execution of the Works. Meanwhile, it is the Contractor's contention that its agreement
to "implement" Document Record Sheets for Briefing Packs 2, 6 & 23, 13, 31, 38, 39, 40 and 45
into the Works in good faith, constitutes a delay recovery measure in itself; particularly as the
applicable sketches released and instructed under El No. 350F was done do in advance of "the
necessary IFC and Engineer's lnstructions"-being issued to the Contractor by the Engineer.
2.0 Potential Impact on the Works
2.1 This Likely Delay Notice No. 1885 is issued in accordance with Clause 16.3.5 which states:

'The Contractor shall promptly give notice to the Engineer of specific probable future events or
circumstances which may adversely affect or delay the design and/or execution of the Works."
2.2 At this stage, it is not known how or to what extent the various information released under El No.
350F (recorded in Annex A) is likely to affect or delay the design and I or execution of the Works.
2.3 Nevertheless, the Contractor undertakes to assess the impact that this potential delaying event
may have on the Works against the Clause 16.3 Programme (Rev. 6.2), approved {Code 2) by the
Engineer on 9 July 2015; the outcome of which will be submitted to the Engineer in due course.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Subcontractor's Direct Communication with Employer and Engineer – Final Warning
Dear Sir,
It has come to our attention that your personnel has on numerous occasions engaged in direct
communication with the Employer and/or Engineer without our attendance and knowledge. These
direct communications without our knowledge are hampering our efforts to ensure a coherent flow of
information between the Parties. This type of behavior is totally unacceptable and all the
communications regarding the Subcontract should either conducted directly through us or include our
personnel regardless of importance of communication. Please note that such direct communications
between you and the Employer and/or Engineer on any issue related to the Subcontract is considered as
a breach.
As in line with the aforementioned conditions, you are hereby reminded to strictly adhere to the
Subcontract's communication protocol and refrain from making such direct communication to the
Employer or their representatives in future. Pursuant to Subcontract Agreement Clause 14.9.3, should
you fail to conform to the above principle, we shall have no other option but to request removal of the
person or persons not adhering to this communication protocol, on the grounds of persistence in
misconduct.
Moreover, we hereby hold you liable for any cost and/or time impact that is incurred by us due to these
direct communications of your representative with Employer and/or Engineer.
The Subject requires your utmost compliance and adherence.
Yours faithfully,
Subject Product Substitutions
Dear Sir,
Construction Management Agency
Abu Dhabi Airport - Midfield Terminal Complex
AECOM - MTC Site Offices Wing A
PO Box 38811, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.
We refer to your letters (Appendix A), in relation to Product Substitution.
Notwithstanding the fact that you have not fully complied with Specification Section 01-62-00 'Product
Substitutions', we have forwarded your request to the Employer, who confirms their conditional
acceptance on the product substitutions.

The Contractor shall evidence the time/cost benefit these substitutions will have for the Employer.
Please note that your full compliance with Specification Section 01-62-00 is required as a pre-requisite
for a final approval and therefore forward the outstanding commercial data, along with any other
necessary information accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: RE: Progress of Prl Works- Notice of Delay {Ill)
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor refutes that any
delays
were incurred in the Prl and which attaches the Subcontractor's updated target programme for the Prl
works, to be clear:
The Contractor raised the Work Inspection Request (WIR) for the mock-up and the Engineer
inspected the area accordingly; however, the Engineer refused to examine the mock-up with both
the Employer and the design Consultant (KPF) due to the Subcontractor's failure to have
completed and prepared for inspection either a three bay benchmark or a full bay (see email
attached).
The Subcontractor claims that previous revisions of the target programme considered that the
glass installation only would be completed by 30 December 2017; however, the Contractor
records that the glass installation is still missing numerous glass units because they were either
broken or rejected due to quality issues, i.e. the glass installation is not yet completed. Further,
the Subcontractor has recently advised that the outstanding glass units will arrive to the Country
on 17 February 2018; hence, the Contractor shares its concerns that the new completion date
included in the last revision of the Subcontractor's target programme (i.e. 28 February 2018)
seems unlikely to happen.
The Contractor rejects the completion date for the PrD/PrL interface flashing included in the last
revision of the programme and emphasizes that March 2018 is a target date that has never met
with the Contractor's approval. For the record, the slippage to the completion date for the
PrD/PrL interface flashing derives from the lack of draughtsman resources at the Subcontractor's
current disposal and subsequent absence of fabrication drawings; hence, it is entirely attributable
to the Subcontractor.
The Contractor further notes that the Subcontractor's workforce continues to be way below the
required level to meet the target dates. For instance, the manpower working on the Prl is currently at 32
of which 4 have been sent to help out in the factory; however, the Contractor
estimates that at least SO workers are required to meet the deadlines.
Finally, the Contractor regrets that the Subcontractor's proposed target programmes cannot be
relied upon and that no efforts appear to be made to avoid further slippages to the completion
dates. For instance, the following activities should have been completed by end of January 2018 in
accordance with the last programme attached to the Subcontractor's letter reference (1):
L1S and L2S completely- Failed
L3S Gl rockwool- Failed

L4S Gl rockwool- Failed
In view of the constant slippage to completion dates included in the Subcontractor's target programmes,
please be again notified that, in the opinion of the Contractor, the performance of the PrL works is such
that it may result in the Contractor not achieving its own obligations under the Contract. Therefore, the
Subcontractor is requested to take all reasonable steps to mitigate its delay and ensure completion of
these works in accordance with its contractual obligations under Clause 8.1.2 and Clause 16.1.1 of the
Conditions of Subcontract, propose satisfactory mitigation measures and revise its target programme.
The Contractor confirms that its rights under the provisions of Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and
Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] of the Conditions of Subcontract are hereby reserved.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above, M/s. Cloisall confirm receipt of M/s. TCAJV's letter referenced above and
take cognizance of its content and reply as follows.
M/s. Cloisall refer to receipt of Variation Order No. 16, received on the 191
h March 2017, issued for the
supply and installation of 173no lozenges, to be executed subsequent to the benchmark approval at
Central Processor L 0.0. M/s. TCAJV state in its letter that M/s. Cloisall has "failed" to proceed with
the subject works on site and activities on site are continuing to worsen. The aforementioned statement
are unfounded and refuted and M/s. Cloisall herewith request the JV to provide substantiation to
validate such statement as listed below.
Key dates and the agreed Program of works
Approval of Benchmark
Variation Orders to the Benchmark
MEP (ANEL) co-ordination issues
Notifications of delays issued to Cloisall
The execution of the works are clearly defined/stated in the instruction as having to be executed
"subsequent to the benchmark approval" which, to date are still Code 3 status, due to no fault of ours.
M/s. Cloisall refer M/s. TCAJV to take cognizance of the following events which, in our opinion has
precluded us from obtaining both benchmark approval nor be able to commence with t he full
installation on site.
Changes to benchmark hanger pipe spine/ribs which changed the CHS 42 .4 x 3.56mm sections
to CHS 60.3 x S.Smm
Initial hanger system was proposed as a 3 set system which had to change to a 5 set hanging
system.. CL0/0401/MTB- CEILING/CONT/11522/18- Page 2 of 3
Request by KPF for plastic caps not initially part of the design requirements for the works.
The aluminium frame for the benchmark changed from the specified SHS 60 x 3mm section to
a SHS 75 x Smm section to obtain a wrinkle free profile.
The stainless steel fascia was specified as a 3 plate (105 x 3mm, 81 x l.Smm and 75 x l.Smm)
system which was subsequently requested to be changed to a 2 plate (95 x 3mm and 95 x
3mm) system.
Additional 30 x 30 x 3mm aluminium tubes for the lighting supports for M/s. ANEL

Attendance, supervision and provision of work area/rent for the requirements for M/s. ANEL
Restrictions for on site mock-up/uncontrolled enviroment
M/s. TCAJV has served a notice of termination/omission of sections with which we can concur with
the latter if these are being omitted from the required scope of works, however the stated omission
are not due to any delays caused on our behalf. The above listed issues has caused delays to the
approval and time taken for the benchmark and subsequent execution of the works on site. The JV
make reference to "key dates" however, the fundamental issue which, the JV fail to acknowledge is
the fact that the execution of the works are subject to the benchmark approval which has been
considerably delayed due to the stated events.
M/s. Cloisall place on record that we will not accept or be liable for any delays and/or related costs,
expenses related to the aforementioned. It should further be noted that the JV recently verbally
extended a request to M/s. Cloisall to decrease the awarded scope of works whereby, only 10 no
lozenges are to be executed as oppose to the initial 173 no. Subsequently, we have advised our
specialist subcontractor of the same and was advised of additional cost for the omission, for which we
have submitted a revised price for the remainder 10 no lozenges under cover of ROM 108 Rev 2 dated
12th July 2017. The revised submission are more costly per unit than the unit cost contained within the
initial variation. This is due to the overall scope being significantly reduced and certain elemental cost
such as design, transport, etc. can only be split across a smaller quantity requirement. Details has
been submitted vide our Letter Ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11456/17 dated 19th December
2017.
M/s. Cloisall further reject that the value of the variation should be a negative AED 6,837,389.85 as
the JV in does not take cognisanze of the benchmark having to be paid along with the additional cost
associated with the benchmark as detailed below as the benchmark will form part of the permanent
work.
Payment of benchmark lozenge based on VO #16
Additional cost for change to the hanger pipe spine/ribs and the 5 set system
Additional cost for the plastic caps as requested by KPF
Additional cost for changes to the aluminium frame
Additional cost for the changes to the stainless steel fascia
Additional cost for the additional aluminium tubes for the lighting supports for M/ s. ANEL
Additional cost for the attendance, supervision and provision of work space for M/s. ANEL
Restrictions for on site mock-up/uncontrolled environment
Cost for the abortive/increase in design & engineering due to the reduction/ omission in scope
of works. Furthermore, M/s. Cloisall has submitted ROM 125 for the additional cost for the closure of
SHT-01
ceiling openings due to the above referenced omission for which a Variation Order is required should
the JV wish to proceed with the work. We refer the JV to our initial cost proposal for the Lighting Trays
(VO #14) and Lighting Lozenges (VO #16), for which we have offered a discount in obtaining the award
for both variation orders which was done due to the large scope of work. Due to the omission of the
entire scope of works of the Lozenges, the AED 648,212.15 discount included as part of this
agreement are no longer applicable and we would seek adjustment in VO #14.
We request that the JV convene a meeting on the matter in order to agree on the issues raised in

order to amicably conclude the lighting lozenge matters. We trust the above meets your approval,
however should you require any further clarification please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter (2), which includes an assessment of screed by your Third Party
Consultant. The assessment presented lacks detail and chronology of events related to the screed
subject.
To assist in a conclusive review of the screed subject you are requested to resubmit a comprehensive,
project specific screed assessment. As a minimum, the assessment must include:
• Introduction and background
• Details of investigations carried out, including crack analysis and type determination
• Statement on root cause of screed cracking
• Screed replacement and repair treatment proposals, including justification of any proposed
crack tolerances
• Changes introduced to materials and methods, including new screed mixes as part of your
mitigation strategy
• All corrective actions preventive steps taken and outcomes
• Details of the current status of the screed works and incidence of cracking,
• Inputs, recommendations and conclusions supported by Third Parties To ensure completeness, the
revised assessment is expected to be fully supported with appropriate
appendices, references and records.
We would appreciate your earliest response in resolving this matter.
Subject Clause 27.1.1- Notice of Claim Delay Notice No. 984- Engineer's Instruction No. 721
Passport Control Area Glass Partitions, Doghouse, OOG Left and Right, and Immigration/Emigration
Counter Components
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein t he Contractor submitted Delay
Notice No. 984.
The Engineer highlights the Contractor's obligation to submit a fully detailed claim in accordance with
the requirements of Clause 27.1.5 within 42 days from the date of the events which alleged ly gave rise
to the alleged delay. Furthermore, the Contractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in
accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within 28 days in order to enable us to review any entitlement the
Contractor may have for there and/or cost.
In addition, the Contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delays as required under Clause 16.5.3 of the Conditions of Contract.
Compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential as this will form part of the basis
of the Engineer's assessment of the Contractor's submitted delaying events.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: RE: Notice of Delay
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of the Subcontractor's delay notice reference (1) in respect of
code3 comments made by the Engineer on the Subcontractor's shop drawing submissions. To be clear:
The Subcontractor's notice refers to Clause 9.10.4 of the Conditions of Subcontract; this clause
specifically
covers any delay triggered by a failure of the Contractor to issue a Specification, Drawing or instruction
within a specific and reasonable timeframe. Hence, the provisions of Clause 9.10.4 of the Conditions of
Subcontract do not relate to the Engineer's non-approval of the Subcontractor's shop drawings and
therefore do not apply to the alleged delay event.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor's letter reference (1) consist of
a
simple recollection of submissions which have not yet met with the Engineer's approval. In other words,
the Subcontractor's letter reference (1) does not provide sufficient level of information in relation to the
cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of the claim.
Should the Subcontractor intend to claim compensation vis-a-vis the notified event, the Subcontractor is
reminded of his obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28} from the date of the
events which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of Clause 27.1.5.
Furthermore,
the Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in accordance with Clause 27.2.1
within twenty-one (21} days in order to enable the Contractor to review any entitlement the
Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost.
The Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the above stated contractual
obligations
as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's submitted
delaying
events.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 - Removal and Re-installation of Cove Lights Framing for
Gate houses GH29, GH32, GH33 and GH34 at PBB Side
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter and correspondence, please find attached Contractor's
Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 which is self explanatory.
This Contractor's Instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 11.3 and Clause 20.1.1{a) of the Conditions of
Subcontract to proceed immediately with the removal and re-installation of cove lights framing for
gatehouses GH29, GH32, GH33 and GH34 at PBB Side to facilitate Fibrex with the alignment of their
precast panels as indicated in the attached report and as detailed below, in accordance with the
Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 attached herewith.

Remove the installed cove light frames for Fibrex realignment of GRC panels. Following which, same
should be reinstalled:
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH29
• 13 precast Fibrex panels to the front of the GH29
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH32
• 17 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH33
• 17 precast Fibrex panels on the Non PBB side of GH33
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH34
Furthermore, the Subcontractor shall also remove and reinstall any additional frames as required and
same shall be deemed instructed under this C. I.
Whilst this instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 20.1.1{a). the Subcontractor will be required to
demonstrate contractual entitlement to a Variation for each and every item and provide all the
necessary substantiations to verify the cost of each potential Variation.
Your cooperation to carry out the above instruction with due expedition is required.

Subject Pending Requests for Variation Orders and Supporting Particulars for Outstanding Variations
Dear Sir,
As advised to the Subcontractor in previous occasions, the Contractor is currently consulting with the
Employer in an endeavour to reach agreement on the valuation of Variations associated with the
Subcontractor's package. In order to enable this process of consultation to conclude in a satisfactory
manner for all parties, the Contractor requires the Subcontractor's cooperation in respect of the
submission of outstanding Requests for Variation Orders (RFVOs) with full supporting particulars.
Moreover, the Subcontractor is required to expedite the preparation of all RFVOs which have not yet
been submitted to date. Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the
Subcontractor's entitlement and the Contractor's ability to evaluate these Variations to the satisfaction
of all parties. In respect of outstanding supporting particulars, please find below a list of RFVOs which
are pending the submission of further substantiation by the Subcontractor:
In addition to the above, the Contractor reiterates its request that the Subcontractor submits both
details of any design cost incurred after the Cut-off 5 and all briefing packs' timesheets. Further, the
Contractor strongly advises that the Subcontractor prepares a design cost presentation to the Employer
which may enable the parties to reach agreement on this matter. The Subcontractor is requested to
submit the abovementioned information within fourteen (14) days of this notice.
The Contractor is committed to working with the Subcontractor to satisfactory resolve its Variation
account; however, should the Subcontractor fail to provide the necessary supporting information as
required by both the Subcontract and international Best Practice for projects of this scale and
complexity within the requested timeframes, the Contractor will proceed with its fair and reasonable
determination in due course.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Contractor's Claim: Compensation for the Employer's breach of Contract
Dear Sir,
The Contractor, pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1.1 [Contractor's Claims] of the Conditions of Contract,
hereby submits a Contractor's claim for compensation due to a breach of Contract by the Employer.
The event or circumstance giving rise to the claim is as follows:
The Contractor refers to the Specification Section 013115 [Coordination with Tenant Areas] Article
1.5.(C), which states that: "To keep continuity within the MTB Construction Phase, the Tenant
Contractors shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including but not limited to; all Systems {IT,
PA, Security and etc.}, Electrical, Plumbing, HVAC, and Waterproofing as based on unit rates from the
BOQ. These various subcontractors shall be directly contracted to the respective Tenant Contractors"
(emphasis added).
The Contractor has been notified by our Electrical Subcontractor, through its letter reference: (1) above,
that the electrical installation in the arcade retail circulation area was NOT carried out by our Electrical
Subcontractor. We consider this as a breach of Specification Section 013115, and as such a clear breach
of Contract by the Employer.
In view of this breach, the Contractor hereby submits our claim for compensation, which is based on the
Contractor's lost profits and lost overhead, which has been calculated based on unit rates in the BOQ
and the quantities as per our Electrical Subcontractor's proposal to carry out the electrical installation in
the arcade retail circulation area.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and we reject the Contractor's allegations in their
entirety. The lCD was created in coordination with the Contractor's MSI team and the Airside Contractor
under the Engineer's management and supervision. Therefore, resubmitting this document requires
additional coordination under the same procedure in order to conclude the issue pertaining to mapping
the VDGS units with the PCA units associated to each parking center-line.
The Engineer has not requested the Contractor to lead the process nor to establish the coordination
sessions. On the contrary, the Engineer has always coordinated the integration requirements between
the Contractors.
The Engineer vide correspondence (2) above, has shared with the Contractor the code and as per the
usual project process. The Contractor was further informed that additional coordination is required in
order to finalize this lCD and again to resubmit it. The resubmission process requires both Contractors to
update the lCD and sign it off, thus the responsible contractor shall submit it officially for review and
approval.
We remind you that this process is already applied therefore your statement that it is "surprising" for
you to provide input on the document and the comment before the lCD gets resubmitted is unfounded.
The Contractor is hereby required to maintain its efforts focused on mitigating delays and progressing
t he timely completion of the interfaces requirements with other packages including the airside systems
as required by Contract.

Subject:Contractor’s Instruction Ref: CI/00xxx – Engineer’s Instruction No. 684A – Mock-up Building Use
Dear Sir,
Please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00xxx which is self-explanatory.
Following receipt of Engineer’s Instruction No. 684A referenced (1) above, you are hereby instructed
pursuant to Clause 11.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract to remove your Mock-up materials as per
Specification Section 013310 Paragraph 1.1.B included under the Subcontract Agreement.
“The Contractor is required to comply with providing the following types of mock-ups; 1.1.B … Demolish
and remove Visual mock-ups when directed by Engineer”
Please note that, you are required to complete the removal of your Mock-up materials
by latest 15th February 2018 after which we reserve our right to carry out the works on your behalf and
back-charge all associated amounts from your payments pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract
under the Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claim).
Moreover, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility including but not limited to Clause 12.12.
You are hereby requested to coordinate with our Logistics Department, Mr. Mohammed Saad on
056 763 4173 immediately.
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :
Dear Sir,

Notice of Back charge – Erection, Fabrication and Painting Works of Lift Shaft 95

We write with reference to the enclosed LPO referenced in (2) above and hereby confirm that we have
already arranged the Structural Steel Fabricator on your behalf, to execute the works mentioned therein
as agreed with you and acknowledged by our Construction Manager.
Pursuant to the Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), we hereby
confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts but not limited to enclosed, from your interim
payments accordingly. The basis of these backcharges is due to your failure to perform your obligations
in connection with your Subcontract Works.
In addition, we shall backcharge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance with
Clause 12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors), whereby you are liable to the Contractor
for any Claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs as mentioned
above.

This is for your information and future reference.
Yours Faithfully
Subject:

Response to AIG’s letter: MTB Project – EOT Claims

Dear Sir,
In continuation to your letter referenced (3) above and the Commercial meeting held on 06 February
2018, related to your prolongation cost submission (i.e. Monthly Cost Schedule), please be informed
that your letter mentioned above has been responded via our letter referenced (4) above.
This is for your information and record.
Subject:Work Inspection Requests (WIR) Issues
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we enclose M/S Deemah Stone’s letter referenced (2) above,
which is self-explanatory.
Specifically, the letter is regarding the pending Code 3 WIRs which are related to the steel structures
under your scope of works.
You are hereby instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor], to proceed and take
necessary action on obtaining a Code 1 for the works mentioned on the letter referenced (2) above,
which has not yet occurred.
This is for your information and immediate action.

Yours faithfully,

Subject:

WIR Issues

Dear Sir,
Further to your letter received referenced (3) above, we hereby inform you that a letter has been
prepared and sent to M/S Rasana, instructing them to proceed with immediate action to obtain a Code
1 for the works as mentioned in your letter.
This is for your information and records.

Yours faithfully,
Subject: Back Charge Notification –Supply and Installation of Gratings at Central Pavilion
Dear Sir,
Further to our notice referenced in (3) and evidenced by your continuous failure to execute the
aforesaid works in a timely manner, please be advised that we have appointed a third party to execute
these works on your behalf and we have omitted these works from your scope in accordance with
Clause 22.2.4 of the Subcontract.
We hereby confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts including but not limited to the enclosed in
accordance to Clause 22.2.4. The omission as stated above is a result of your persistent failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract Agreement.
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
10.3.5 and 11.4, whereby you are liable to the Contractor for the costs arising out of your failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
The above is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,

Subject: Response to the Subcontractor's Claim#21 - Loss of Manpower due to Abu Dhabi Police Traffic
Precaution on Foggy Weather
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the Subcontractor's Claim#21 for loss of manpower due to Abu Dhabi Police
traffic precaution on foggy weather, submitted via the letter reference: (1) above, and reject it based on
the following grounds:
• The claim is not sufficiently defined for the Contractor's review and assessment, as the Subcontractor
has failed to establish its entitlement to additional payment under the provisions of the Subcontract or
otherwise.
• Furthermore, the Subcontractor has failed to comply with the notice requirement under SubClause
27.1 [Subcontractor's Claims] of the Conditions of Subcontract.
• Notwithstanding the above, the event that has led the Abu Dhabi Police to take traffic precautions is
foggy weather condition, which is predictable during this time of the year in Abu Dhabi. As such, the
Subcontractor should have provided against such weather conditions in its programme.

• Moreover, we remind the Subcontractor that it is Subcontractor's responsibility to ensure the safety of
its personnel.
In light of the above, we reject the Subcontractor's Claim#21 for loss of manpower due to Abu Dhabi
Police traffic precaution on foggy weather, in its entirety.
Thank you.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Minutes of Meeting Held on 06.02.2018 – Commercial Meeting

Please find attached the minutes of meeting from the Commercial meeting held on 06 February 2018,
related to your prolongation cost submission (i.e. Monthly Cost Schedule). We have detailed below the
information we require further, in order to assess your submission for Extension of Time costs.
We have conducted a fair review for entitlement of your prolongation cost submission and we have
identified that the submission needs further substantiation in line with the relevant provisions of the
Subcontract. As advised, we request that you submit your claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of
Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the
Subcontract.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, we also require you to
provide us with the full details of the Staff resources that you would have deployed in executing and
completing your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline programme. Also, the
Staff resources you considered necessary to execute and complete your Subcontract Works in
accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme. This could be in the form of Organisation charts for both
periods. The details are to include resource names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates.
You should also categorise the resources into "Core" (deployed across the entire works), "Location"
(deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and "Task" (deployed to supervise
specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding). Additionally, we also note that a portion of the staff cost included in your
submission, is considered to be Overheads and needs to be excluded from your claim.
Please also be informed that you are required to submit your assessment starting from the
commencement date, showing that the events and circumstances which were beyond the Time for
Completion were inevitable, unforeseeable, unintentional and beyond your reasonable control.
Moreover, you have to identify any culpable delays and present concurrent delays starting from the
commencement date. The Contractor states that culpability and concurrency are indeed matters of
importance as they serve as indicators of entitlement.
Furthermore, you are required to submit your assessment starting from the commencement date, in
order to be able to determine any entitlement associated with delays to works that may have not been
added to your submission previously in your Monthly Cost Schedule (February 2014-April 2015).
Without prejudice, we note that this is only to evaluate any potential entitlement as per the

requirements of Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s
Claims].
Furthermore, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement related to this matter,
you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the Subcontract to provide all information and evidence
that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate the alleged delays as required under the
Subcontract Agreement including evidence or proof of loss.
This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,

Subject : Extension of Time and Prolongation Claim
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Subcontractor's above captioned letter 4 received on 21
September 2015, containing Subcontractor's claim submission for Extension of Time & Prolongation Cost
("the Claim").
The Contractor also confirms that it has been and continues to be available to discuss the Claim with the
Subcontractor in an amicable manner.
The Contractor clarifies that the information provided herein is given on a "without prejudice" basis and
is not to be construed as a waiver of or a limitation to any of the Contractor's rights under the
Subcontract.
The Contractor has conducted a fair review for entitlement, merit and quantum of the Claim and
comments as follows:
a. The Claim is not compliant with the Terms of Conditions of the Subcontract:
The Subcontractor has identified the relevant provisions of the Subcontract under which it brings the
Claim as Sub-Clauses 7.3 [Extension of Time] and 10.4 [Right to Claim] of the Subcontract.
It is the Contractor's position that the Claim is not in line with the both the Subcontractor's related
notification and submission obligations prescribed in 10.3 [Early Warning] of the Subcontract.
Accordingly, the Contractor is discharged from liability in connection with the Claim.
b. The Subcontractor has not demonstrated entitlement:
Notwithstanding the matter of fact described in section (a) above which would allow the Contractor to
dismiss the Claim outright, the Contractor confirms it has conducted a thorough review of the Claim,
going past the confirmation of non-compliance with the Subcontract. The Contractor has proceeded in
such manner, with the genuine intention of ascertaining any merit and factual entitlements that the
Subcontractor may have, in good faith. The Contractor describes its observations below and in the
Appendix hereto; however these are not restrictive or exhaustive in any manner. The Contractor
reminds that the onus to prove rests with the Subcontractor and that this has not been attained.
The Contractor confirms that the Claim is not properly demonstrating entitlement to Extension of Time
and Prolongation Cost.

The Subcontractor's basic position is that the events and circumstances which were beyond the Time for
Completion, were inevitable, unforeseeable, unintentional and beyond the reasonable control of the
Subcontractor. The Subcontractor then seeks an Extension of Time of 159 days and a total of QAR
10,381 ,480.44.
The Subcontractor appears to contend that any and all delay in the Subcontract Works is excusable and
compensable to it. This is simply incorrect. The Subcontractor is not identifying any of its culpable delays
and the Subcontractor is not presenting any "concurrent" delays. The Contractor states that culpability
and concurrency are indeed matters of importance as they serve as indicators of entitlement to time or
time with associated indirect costs.
In general; any industry standard delay analysis would demonstrate that any delay that may be
excusable to the Subcontractor is concurrent with Subcontractor's own non-excusable delays; therefore
negating Subcontractor's entitlement for compensation of costs. The fact is, the Subcontractor has not
timely attained the conditions precedent as per Subcontract and has abandoned the Subcontract Works,
in breach of the Subcontract. However, the Subcontractor appears to contend that any and all delay in
the Subcontract Works is excusable and compensable to it. This is simply incorrect.
In light of the foregoing, the Contractor confirms that entitlement to Extension of Time & Prolongation
Cost has not been demonstrated by the Subcontractor.
c. The quantum of the submission is unsupported and inflated:
The Subcontractor appears to allege that it is to be excused and it is to be compensated indirect and
direct costs for any and all delay in the Subcontract Works.
The Contractor briefly notes that compensability applies to excusable and non-concurrent delay.
Provided that the Subcontractor demonstrates such compensability, then:
c.1 Prolongation costs do not cover alleged direct (manpower) costs and do not cover alleged disruption
costs;
This is notice under Sub-Clauses 7.3 (Extension of Time) and 10.4 (Right to Claim) that the Contractor
disapproves the Claim and gives detailed comments as attached.
The Contractor considers the issue closed and expressly reserves its rights under the Subcontract in
relation to the Claim and the Subcontract Works.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
1. Refer to the Subcontractor's claim submission submitted on 21't September 2015 under letter
reference 4) (the "Claim"). The Contractor gives notice under the referenced Subcontract
Agreement clause 10.5 [Variation and Claim Procedure] that the Claim is disapproved. The
detailed comments ofthe Contractor are given below.
2. In these detailed comments, unless stated otherwise:
(a) words and expressions used have the definitions assigned to them in the Subcontract;
(b) references to paragraphs and pages are references to paragraphs and pages in the Claim
referenced above.
3. The Contractor disapproves the Claim on the basis of entitlement under the Subcontract due
to the fact that the Claim is not compliant with the Terms of Conditions of the Subcontract.
4. The Subcontractor did not clearly demonstrate "cause and effect", for this is a re-measurable
Subcontract, in relation to the Claim events and did not provide supporting evidence and
documentation in respect of the Claim including planned and actual schedules of work. The

Subcontractor did not discuss its duty to interface with other subcontractors, did not
demonstrate productivity effectiveness and did not include for its obligation to have
accommodated the schedule of works being varied time to time by the Contractor. The
Subcontractor made no reference to the fact that it abandoned the Subcontract Works, in
breach of its Contractual obligations.
5. The Contractor has numerous observations relating to the methodology adopted by
Subcontractor for its cost calculations; however, the Contractor will not fully detail these in the
absence of contractual compliance and merit as aforementioned. Notwithstanding the
contractual non-compliances and the issues concerning entitlement, the Contractor reviewed
the quantum of Subcontractor's submission for reference purposes only; the Contractor
confirms it does not agree with Subcontractor's ca lculations.
DETAILED RESPONSE
6. The statement in the second paragraph of the Subcontractor's Claim on page 1, that the
Subcontractor received the Letter of Intent (LOI) on the 3'd November 2014 is incorrect,
because the LOI was received and signed by the Subcontractor on the 20th October 2014 and
the offer and acceptance were completed. Furthermore, although the Subcontract Agreement
was issued to the Subcontractor on the 18th February 2015, the Subcontractor was well familiar
and well aware of the Subcontract Agreement since the documents were signed by the
Subcontractor on the 3'd December 2014 and submitted on February 2015 without any
amendments.
7. The Subcontractor has successfully completed the pt Milestone but fa iled to achieve the 2"d
Milestone per Schedule 1 Subclause 4.5 due to Subcontractor's culpable delays. The alleged
events and circumstances described in the Subcontractor's Claim do not give any reasonable
grounds for excusable delay and were never notified to the Contractor. It is also noted that the
programme submitted by the Subcontractor is not matching that of the Subcontract and
therefore the resulting 159 days that are claimed by the Subcontractor have not been
demonstrated by means of Time Impact Analysis with reference to the Subcontract.
8. In view of the above and pursuant clause 10.3 [Early Warning] "A Party shall notify the other as
soon he is aware of any circumstance which may delay or disrupt the Subcontract Works, or
which may give rise to a claim for additional payment. The Subcontractor shall take all
reasonable steps to minimize these effects. The Subcontractor must notify the Contractor no
more than 7 (seven) days after a delay or disruption event is considered to have occurred, and
he must provide details within 14 days of such notice". Furthermore, it is a prerequisite under
the Contract that an entitlement to Extension of time for Completion under the Clauses 7.3
[Extension of time] and 10.4 [Right to Claim], as mentioned above and pursuant Clause 10.3
[Early Warning] the Party shall notify the other as soon as practicable and no more than 7 days
after the Party became aware or should have become aware. The Subcontractor has not given
any notification for claim or any circumstances that delayed the Subcontract Works.
Nevertheless, the Contractor never received any such notification from the Subcontractor as
required under the Subcontract Agreement.
9. In continuation to the above the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor in page 2 paragraph
3 made reference to Clause 12.1 [Default by Subcontractor] ofthe Subcontract Conditions.

10. For the reasons set out herein the Contractor considers that the Subcontractor is not entitled
to any reimbursement for the alleged prolongation costs. The Subcontractor was informed with
letter reference 1) and 2) that the Subcontract Works continued to fall behind progress
pursuant to Clause 7.4 [Late Completion] and failed to complete Milestone 2. The
Subcontractor had not taken into account the entirety of the comments raised by the
Contractor resulting to Default by the Subcontractor.
11. The section of the Subcontractor's Claim titled "General Provisions" (GP) and "Contract
Particulars" (CP) are not in line with the Subcontract Agreement.
12. The Subcontract is a re-measureable contract and not a lump sum as alleged in page 8 of the
Claim.
13. The Statement that the Subcontractor has encountered delays due to non-availability oftimely
permits is nonspecific and cannot be accepted. The Contractor brings to the Subcontractor's
attention that pursuant to Clause 1.4.7 Schedule 1 [Documentation Management and Permits]
"The Subcontractor shall provide all documents and assistance to the Contractor to apply and
secure all relevant/ necessary Road Permits [ ... ].The Contractor shall lead the permit process,
complete application form submit and follow through the process until all permits necessary are
issued and received. The Subcontractor is responsible to provide accurate and timely
information required for the process to avoid delays." The Contractor has at all times acted
proactively and without delay in providing all relevant permits and no work was affected by any
permit.
14. In page 10 and 16 the Subcontractor states that it has not received timely payments. This is not
accurate because the Subcontractor failed to provide in a timely manner, a Performance
Security per Clause 4.5 [Performance Security] and the Appendix to the Subcontract. The
Subcontractor's late submission of the Performance Bond was submitted with letter reference
3) on the g th March 2015 which was a submission later than the required date. The Contractor
exercised its right under Clause 4.5 which states that "Failure to provide the required and
complying Performance Bond will give the Contractor cause for non-payment of progress
payments".
15. The Subcontractor appears to allege in the last paragraph of page 10, that it encountered
delays and that it is to be excused and compensated indirect and direct costs for any and all
delay in the Subcontract Works due to lack of proper sequence of work. Furthermore pursuant
to Clause 7.2 [Programme], there was no "planned" Subcontractor's schedule, since the
Subcontractor failed to provide any programme for the Subcontract Works as required under Clause 7.2
ofthe Subcontract. This resulted to insufficient coordination and monitoring ofthe
Subcontract Works. However, the Subcontractor has a duty to coordinate and interface with
the Contractor, other Subcontractors and with the Works in general pursuant to Schedule 1
Clause 2 [Contractor and Subcontractor Responsibilities].
The Contractor considers that any delays of the alleged events were:
a) Avoidable, in whole or in part; and
b) Wholly exclusively caused by the Subcontractor's own acts and omissions including but not
limited to the Subcontractor's failure to comply with the requirements of the Subcontract
Agreement.

16. Subcontractor's allegation that the Contractor has misrepresented and misled the
Subcontractor by leaving only hard limestone to be excavated by the Subcontractor and that it
had a delay impact is rejected. The reason for this is that, Red co is an experience Subcontractor
who is well familiar with the conditions of the Substrata in Doha. Further, under Clause 4.1
[General Obligations] "The Subcontractor when tendering, is deemed to have taken into account
all of the existing available data as well as that made available by the Contractor including all
existing data from research or studies executed as well as relevant investigations/information
which may be available through agencies and organizations etc. in Doha[ ... )". In addition Clause
4.1 continues with: "Notwithstanding any information which may be contained in the
documents and drawings supplied by or on behalf of the Contractor, the Subcontractor will be
deemed to have made independent inquiries before tendering as to the nature of the work, and
local and other conditions and obtained information on all matters that moy in any way affect
the rates and prices making up the Subcontract Price". ln addition Schedule 2 of the Subcontract
Agreement contains the Bill of Quantities (BoQ) with all the estimated quantities and scope of
work. Therefore, the Contractor notes that the scope of the Subcontract Works is properly
represented and included in the Subcontract Agreement.
17. The Contractor further notes the provision of Clause 4.1, mentioned above, that the
Subcontractor is deemed to make independent enquiries and obtain information on all matters.
In addition, the signed BoQ Schedule 2 Sub-Clause 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 all quantities are
approximate and they are subject tore-measure on actual measurement of works on site.
18. The Contractor disagrees with the Subcontractor's statement that the Works methodology was
poorly designed and reiterates that the overall Works methodology and sequence was agreed
between the two Parties, per Schedule 1 and 2 of the Subcontract Agreement.
19. The Subcontractor appears to allege that it is to be excused for purported disruption caused
by design Works. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has failed to submit any Site
daily records throughout the period of performance of the Subcontract Works per Sub-Clause
1.4.6 of Schedule 1. Additionally, pursuant to Sub-clause 2.7 of Schedule 2 [Standstill periods
and idle time] "The Subcontractor shall only be due payment for standstill or idle time where
agreed in writing with the Contractor". This is coupled with the lack of any documents or
records to substantiate any idle time or any circumstances that may have disrupted the
Subcontract Works. Due to the lack of records and insufficient information by the
Subcontractor, the Contractor rejects any idling time. Furthermore, it is noted that claiming for
idling time is not accepted to be part of a prolongation cost, as such claims are not to overlap.
20. The dimensions mentioned do not match with the Specification and have not been considered
in any ofthe official Subcontractor's submissions.
21. Due to the failure of the Subcontractor to complete the Subcontract works, per Clause 7.4 [Late
Completion] and Schedule 1 Sub-Clause 1.3(k), the Contractor was compelled to complete the
Subcontract Works with its own additional resources. The Subcontractor was informed with letter
reference 1) and 2) that the Contractor has incurred loss, damage and expense for which
it reserves its rights.
22. In addition to the above the Contractor also notes Sub-Clause 3 [Specification of Works]
Schedule 1 of the Subcontract Agreement, that "the works shall be in accordance with Q-Rail

Specifications, International standards, Contractor's site investigation reports, policies and
method statements, QCS 2010 (or most updated and issued version in force at the time of
duration of the Subcontract Works) and to the tolerances included in such standards and the
Subcontractor is deemed to have included all relevant items within his Subcontract Price".
23. The statement that the procurement of diesel was very difficult without a subcontract in place
is not accepted due to the fact that the LOI was received by the Subcontractor on the 20th
October 2014. Moreover per Sub-Clause 2.5.3 Schedule 2 the Contractor may supply diesel in
an emergency to avoid any works being delayed. In fact, the Contractor has provided fuel to
the Subcontractor as an interim arrangement during the mobilization period. Later on, the
Subcontractor however, never notified the Contractor for any further difficulties encountered
in diesel procurement during the Subcontract Works.
24. The Subcontractor's delay analysis and the programme are not an approved programme by the
Contractor, do not contain any resources, and do not demonstrate non-concurrent excusable
delays, thus are disapproved. Additionally, per Clause 7.2 [Programme], the Subcontractor
failed to provide a programme within the time stated in the Appendix. This resulted to
insufficient coordination and monitoring of the works as mentioned previously and led to the
Contractor finishing the works.
25. The Subcontractor pursuant to Clause 12.1 [Default by Subcontractor] is in a breach of the
Subcontract since it failed to prosecute the Subcontract Works diligently and to comply with
Contractor's requests to rectify the Subcontract Works as issued with reference letters 1) and
2) and since no practicable steps were taken to remedy Subcontractor's default resulting to
delaying the Subcontract Works.
26. The Subcontractor has abandoned the Subcontract Works on the 29th March 2015 without
completing, resulting to a breach of Contract causing to the Contractor to incur additional cost
and expense to complete the Subcontract Works. Therefore, due to the aforementioned, the
Subcontractor is not eligible for any prolongation cost, remains responsible for its failure to
comply with the provisions and obligations of the Subcontract.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:Pending Re-Coding of Structural Shop Drawings
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, and in continuation to the BIM workshop held at our site offices on
9 October 2017, wherein a representative of the Employer confirmed the recoding of the Elevator Shaft
Shop-drawings with code 1, we enclose our Subcontractor’s letter reference (1) and email
correspondence reference (2) above which are self-explanatory.
Specifically, the Subcontractor is requesting the Engineer’s kind action on re-coding, as agreed, the Shop
Drawings mentioned on the letter referenced (1) above, which has not yet occurred.

In view of the above, please be informed that the re-coding of the said shop drawings will enable the
approval of the relevant Work Inspection Requests (WIRs).
The Engineer is hereby politely requested to change the code status of the said drawings, thus enabling
the Contractor to close the related WIRs and proceed with the Works accordingly.
This is for your kind information and action.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Request for Re-Coding Shop Drawings

Dear Sir,
Please be advised that the Contractor rejects the comments recently received from the Design
Consultant (ARUP) on the shop drawings listed below:

The Contractor notes that these shop drawings have been rejected on a non-reasonable basis. For
instance, ARUP refers the Contractor to the comments returned on the relevant calculations
(DS/0401/11705-00); however, the said calculations are under review since 16 December 2017 and the
Contractor has not yet received any comments.
Further, the comments made by ARUP regarding coordination are not relevant as the towers included in
these shop drawings were an integral part of Briefing Pack No. 59 and the necessary coordination had
already taken place.
Moreover, the previous submission made in respect of Briefing Pack No. 59 (DS/0401/7914-01), which
included both calculations and drawings, is approved since April 2017.
In view of the above, the Engineer is hereby politely requested to change the code status of the above
listed drawings thus enabling the Contractor to proceed with the Works.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

FWD: Recording of Material Submittal – Aluminium Composite Panel Skin

Dear Sir,
Please find attached letter reference (1) wherein the specialist cladding Subcontractor Chadwick
Technology LLC records its objection to the Engineer’s recent action, where the material submittal

reference (3), previously granted a status code 2 on 20 June 2017, was being downgraded to code 3 on
18 December 2017 citing failure to provide the required certificates/tests on time.
The Contractor endorses the Subcontractor’s disapproval and requests the Engineer reviews and
approves the re-submission of the material submittal (2) which includes all relevant certifications.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

FWD: Notice of Delay due to Unfair Comments for PrA and PrD Door Interface Drawing

Dear Sir,
Further to the code 3 / code 2 review statuses assigned to the some of the shop drawings for the PrA
and PrD, the Contractor forwards to the Engineer the detailed response from the façade Subcontractor
J&H Emirates LLC (1).
The Contractor endorses the Subcontractor’s response to the comments made by the Engineer on the
shop drawings and requests the Engineer revises the code 3 and code 2 statuses.

Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Requests for Details Approval via RFI

Dear Sir,
Please find attached a schedule of pending MIR’s which basis of rejection is that some minor details
were constructed despite not being included in the relevant shop drawings; however, in all cases the
correspondent shop drawings had already been approved with code 1 status.
Please note that the re-submission of code 1 approved shop drawings at this juncture, when the
pertaining works have already been executed and the specialized Design Consultant in no longer present
on Site, does not make any practical sense. Therefore, the Contractor politely requests the Engineer to
review and approve the missing details via dedicated ‘request for information’ submissions. This
proposed methodology, which has met with the Engineer’s approval in previous instances, will prevent
both the Contractor and the Employer from expending substantial design effort and incurring
unnecessary costs.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor confirms that these design details will be included in the asbuilt documentation.

Yours faithfully,
Subject :

Pending Re-Coding of Structural Shop Drawings

Dear Sir,
Further to the attached email correspondence, wherein a representative of the Employer confirms that
the Contractor had proceeded with the Works on Site in accordance with the applicable code 1
comments and therefore a number of shop drawings should be re-coded to enable the approval of the
relevant work inspection requests (WIRs), please be kindly advised that the re-coding of the shop
drawings listed below has not yet occurred.

The Engineer is hereby politely requested to change the code status of the above listed drawings thus
enabling the Contractor to close the related WIR.
Yours faithfully,
Subject :

FWD: Code 3 Method Statement for Stud Welding in Infill Vertical Skylight

Dear Sir,
Further to the code 3 review status assigned to the method statement for stud welding in infill vertical
skylight, the Contractor forwards to the Engineer the detailed response from the roof Subcontractor
Chadwick Technology LLC (1).
The Contractor endorses the Subcontractor’s response to the comments made by the Engineer on the
method statement submission and requests the Engineer revises the code 3 status.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Back Charge Notification for Materials
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed quotations referenced in (3) & (4) and LPOs referenced in (5)
above regarding the aforesaid subject, please be advised that we have placed an order for the materials

on your behalf due to your failure to fulfill your subcontract obligation with regards to procurement and
delivery of the required materials in a timely manner.
We hereby confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts including but not limited to the enclosed in
accordance with Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), from your interim payments accordingly.
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
10.3.5 and 11.4, whereby you are liable to the Contractor for the costs arising out of your failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: China State Acceleration Claim- Information Outstanding Update
Dear Sir,
In response to your letter reference (2), wherein you stated that "we do not identify any new
substantiation which has not been previously submitted" CSCEC has submitted new information in
January 2018 in relation to their Acceleration Cost Claim.
Please find attached the following additional information provided by CSCEC in support of their claim
with
further clarifications;
• Attachment 1 - A list of additional documents (attendance sheets, pay-slips, access ID cards)
CSCEC provided in recent submissions (which arrived in early January 2018, Appendix 1 to 3 with
summary page of clarifications).
• Attachment 2 - Minutes of meeting ("MoM") with CSCEC's added comments, which was a
clarification meeting between TCA-JV, AECOM and CSCEC held on 26th November 2017 @ 3pm in
AECOM's Office.
• Attachment 3 -File Index List {63 total files) also requested by AECOM in the same MoM above.
• Attachment 4 - CSCEC Service Agreements (SZRT & Omniscient Technical Services L.L.C. &
Interface Technical Inspection ITI) and CSCEC's LPO (Local Purchase Order)- Aries Oil Field Services
L.L.C.
CSCEC has also clarified their response to your letter (2) above; these responses were previously
tabulated
to you in our letter (1) above, with supporting particulars (by way of Appendix 1 to 5 of said letter). We
hereby add further clarifications to that letter (1) above;
1. Our submission of (1) above contained copies of the translated English version of CSCEC's labour
agreements.
2. Our submission of (1) above contained an additional CSCEC calculation to derive the number of
additional labour related to accommodation and other labour welfare expenses.
3. Our submission of (1) above contained CSCEC's quotations provided for the steel scrap materials
from 3 separate scrap dealers.

4. Our submission of (1) above contained CSCEC's schedule of quantities demonstrating the
materials distributed to each fabricator and their design locations.
5. Our submission of (1) above contained CSCEC's updated and additional information and
supporting documents provided by Tiger Steel (the fabricator I subcontractor) in relation to their
acceleration of the fabrication works. The Contractor reiterates that the Subcontractor CSCEC has
provided further and all the clarifications and
supporting particulars requested on various occasions by the Engineer; moreover, the Subcontractor
CSCEC has also responded to every query raised by the Engineer between May 2017 and December
2017
in relation to the Heads of Claim of the Acceleration Costs.
The Contractor emphasises once again that, despite numerous reminders, the Contractor is yet to
receive
the Engineer's formal assessment in respect of the Subcontractor's CSCEC Acceleration Cost Claim.
The Contractor is still of the opinion that the Engineer has been furnished with sufficient information
(and
additional supplementary information) to enable his assessment of the Subcontractor's CSCEC Cost
Claim;
therefore, the Contractor feels prudent to remind the Engineer once again that whenever provision is
made in the Contract for the giving of any determination, such determination shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Conditions of Contract Clause 11.4.1, please determine the matter
fairly
and in accordance with the Contract.
Yours faithfully,

Subject:Exchange Rate Applied for RFVO 1114 and 1009
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in relation with the Request for Variation Order (RFVO) No
1114 and No 1009 submissions, we would like to record that at the time of writing this letter, we have
yet to receive these Variation Orders from the Engineer.
Furthermore, in line with the latest discussions and correspondences we had with the Engineer on the
issue, the exchange rate for these RFVO submissions has been assessed at 4.30 AED/€ by the Engineer.
For convenience, please see enclosed schedule of exchange rates vs. the dates of the instructions and
RFVO Submissions received from the Engineer.
Finally, please be informed that without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement, the
above decision has been taken by the Engineer after many discussions and negotiations.
In addition, in case anything changes from the above, it will be reflected on the Variation Order.
This is for your information.
Yours faithfully,
Subject: Overhead and Profit on Employer related Variations and Claims

Dear Sir,
We have been discussing Overheads and Profits with the Engineer and the Employer for some time as
this
was affecting close out of various Variations. In order to finalize this issue the Engineer has agreed to the
following:
1.) On Variations an amount equal to 11.11% will be added as Head Office Overhead and Profit
2.) On claims an amount equal to 5.5% will be added for Head Office Overhead
In case you do not accept the 5.5 % Head Office Overhead you are required to provide your audited
financial reports for the last 4 years within 48 hours of receiving this letter. Please note that if the
original
reports are not in English, a translation is required. The financial reports should summarize and explain
your requested Head Office Overhead percentage and will be provided to the Engineer for review.
The 5.61% for Profit are non-negotiable.
In case you accept the above, kindly respond with your confirmation. Please note that we will consider
no
response as your confirmation of acceptance.
Please contact us immediately if you have any further questions.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:

Comments on Resubmission of Total Cost Incurred up to 31st October 2017

Dear Sir,
We would like to thank AGCA’s representative for attending the TCAJV offices on the 22nd January
2018. We are sure that your QS witnessed during her visit some of the difficulties we are encountering
when tracing information; from supporting documentation through to proof of payment. We compiled a
list of general comments below which detail missing information and/or further clarification on items.
AGCA witnessed the significant resources employed by TCAJV in order to review AGCA costs; however,
these exercises cannot be completed to the satisfaction of our team (most importantly our auditors)
until we are in receipt of the listed items below.
1.
LC’s - Where the LC facility has been utilized there needs to be greater substan
tiation behind this.
The LC itself – detailing beneficiary, date, project and value, bill settlement advice for settled
amounts. Wherever the LC facility used from other projects (DOHA/RIYAD METRO etc) AGCA have to
provide further proof of payment particularly for MTB Project (see comment below). Attaching
corresponding invoices to the respective LC.
The commercial invoice breakdown supporting the debit memo. This creates a clear link back to
the invoice (and LPO).
Discrepancy letter – Where there has been a discrepancy letter raised, Al Ghurair need to
evidence that an acceptance of the drawdown has been agreed, so that TCAJV can see the transaction
has been completed.

2.
Purchase orders – As discussed with Donna, (we used Hilti /Core Metal as examples), the LPO’s
often do not relate to the ADIA scheme, or have been split amongst various projects. Where this has
occurred, there will need to be further clarification on how the invoice value relating to that LPO was
determined. The split LPO’s contain various PR# numbers but TCAJV cannot possibly understand how
these have been applied/invoice splits decided upon.
3.
Payments through Cheque – needs breakdown showing how much is related to each invoice. In
some cases the breakdown is provided, but for most it is not.
4.
Finance Costs – Policies and proof of payment (not just email from Mashreq bank) to be
provided.
5.
Staff costs – Timesheets are yet to be reviewed but spot checks were undertaken (design & PM
Staff). Comparing the prolongation submission versus the most recent submission highlights
inconsistencies between monthly costs placed against certain staff members. Sometimes showing a 50%
difference (increase) between previous inclusions – Al Ghurair to advice. Al Ghurair to supply wage slips,
salary certificates, timesheets, gate passes etc.
Excel copy of staff summaries to be provided where PDF’s have been sent.
Every staff member will need to have their wage slips produced. (Al Ghurair to provide wage
slips were wages deviates from ‘normal fixed’ for bonuses, air fares etc).
Incentive/performance and Bonus payments form a significant part of the monthly costs –
therefore we would need to see evidence that these have been paid. They’re applied consistently each
month but the wage slips provided do not show this? (If paid quarterly or annually – substantiation will
need to be supplied to evidence these figures).
Evidence of training expenses to be supplied.
Car allowances – These are not shown on payslips so we can assume these are paid directly by
Al Ghurair? Please provide car rental invoices/or agreements. (Highlight invoice/vehicle pertaining to a
particular employee).
Leave allowance – Please advise why the leave allowance is a separate column – If the ‘fixed’
figure is included consistently each month then this would allow for periods of annual leave (unless Al
Ghurair can evidence that no leave was taken by an individual and they were paid in lieu of leave).
Air Tickets fares – Information on how this is paid. We cannot see evidence of this on payslips?
Group life insurance – Proof of insurance cost premium payment to be provided.Medical
insurance - Proof of insurance cost premium payment to be provided.
We look forward to receiving authentic substantiation as mentioned above in order to expedite
finalisation of the Framework Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Area of Concerns for Non Accessibility on Site Delay Damages

With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above, we hereby
inform you that we have forwarded your concern to M/S Al Ghurair as described in the said letter and

we are in the process of preparing a response to the rest of the Subcontractors allegedly affecting your
works, instructing them to coordinate accordingly.
Notwithstanding the above, you are hereby informed pursuant but not limited to Clauses 12.12.1,
12.12.2 (a), (b) and 12.12.3
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] that the access to the
Site is not exclusive and that Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently.
Moreover, as an experienced Subcontractor and as per Clause 12.12.3 you should have allowed in your
Subcontract Price for all delays, disruptions and costs you may incur arising out of or in connection with
the work to be performed by Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above, please note that Clause 12.12.3 further states that:
“The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays, disruptions and costs it
may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be performed by Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with its obligations pursuant to this clause 12.12 including but
not limited to those interfaces set out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) to
the extent that such matters are known or ought reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor
on or before the date of execution of the Subcontract. The Subcontractor agrees that it shall not be
entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or
adjustment to the Subcontract Price in respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply
with its obligations pursuant to this clause 12.12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for submission of the
tender.”.
Furthermore, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement to claim for “delay
damages” as stated in your letter reference 2 above, you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the
Subcontract to provide all information and evidence that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or
mitigate the alleged delays as required under the Subcontract Agreement including evidence or proof of
loss.
Dear sir
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Wall Cladding Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 19,832,798.
Basis of Claim
You assert that the progress of your Wall Cladding works was delayed and disrupted by the occurrence
of certain events for which we are contractually liable to reimburse to you the additional Cost that you
have incurred as a consequence. In this regard you have identified the following as the events causing
disruption to your Wall Cladding works:
1.
Site Measurements Panels
2.
Design Change - Piers and Wrapper Walls GRG Skirting

3.
Design Change- Piers and Wrapper Wall GRG Collar around Façade Mullions
4.
Misalignment of Ceiling and Wall joints due to the structural deviations
5.
Design Change- Piers Movement Joint Panels MPC-11C (wall)
6.
Engineering Delays- Piers Gate houses Entrance Panels MPC-11C (wall)
7.
Lack of MEP Clearance – Piers Gate Houses’ Entrance wall cladding
8.
Lack of Facade clearance & uncontrolled site conditions to start wall cladding in Piers and
Wrappers
9.
Wall cladding’s Scaffolding disruptions
10.
Wall cladding delays due to Out-of-sequence works / Deviation of the installation plan
11.
Instruction to hold all the wall cladding works on site due to fatality incidents
You have also provided a brief narrative of each event in your Submission (pages 13,811 to 13,839).
There is however nothing much of substance in the narrative; for example, you allege for Event 1 (Site
Measurements Panels) that “massive delay” was caused to the completion of the fabrication and
installation of “huge quantities” of MPC-11B and MPC-11C panels and similarly in Event 4 (Misalignment
of Ceiling and Wall joints) that “big quantities” of the fabricated/delivered MPC-11B panels were refabricated Such parlance is patently worthless in establishing the facts and the disruption (if any) that
might reasonably be attributed to each of these events. Suffice to say that it is for you to establish and
convey the facts pertaining to each event, including quantities and time(s) where relevant. Moreover,
where the design and/or method of installation has been changed e.g. Event 2 (GRG Skirting), Event 3
(GRG Collar), Event 5 (Movement Joint Panels) and Event 9 (Scaffolding - stand alone in lieu of
cantilevered from Birdcage for Wall Cladding) then all directly related costs (such as the labour,
equipment and other resources utilised in the execution of the changed work) should be included in the
valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption.
Having identified the events upon which your disruption claim is based, it is for you to then identify the
disruption suffered for each event. It is not sufficient to merely list events and then conclude and
proceed on the basis that your entire Wall Cladding works suffered disruption as that was not the case.
Indeed we will not entertain any such ‘global claim’. A claim against each event is the correct approach
and also necessary to precisely establish its impact. Furthermore, your failure to notify and establish the
impact of each event may have prejudiced any related entitlement we might otherwise have had to
make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a back-charge against a subcontractor. If
such relief (or any part) is lost due to your failure to provide notice in accordance with the Subcontract,
then your own related entitlement would clearly also be negated. If, despite the foregoing, you
maintain that your Wall Cladding works have been disrupted, then you must submit an appropriately
detailed, substantiated and independent claim for each alleged disruption event.
Method of Valuation
Notwithstanding our rejection of your global disruption claim, we have reviewed the submitted
valuation and highlight the following as aspects requiring your further attention and consideration in
any subsequent submission.
The submitted valuation claim comprises the following elements:
WCD 1

This element comprises the cost of Labour (direct & subcontract) that you say was deployed in
completing 44,554m2 of Wall Cladding over the period February 2016 to October 2017 (AED 8.7m) from
which you have deducted what you say was your estimated / budgeted cost based on an unsupported
production allowance of 4.63 m2 per man per Work Day (1.3m). Furthermore you say that this loss of
production necessitated more Supervision and Foreman time (AED 0.9m) and also additional Scaffold
time (4.7m). You have then claimed AED 0.3m for other (unidentified) cost by applying 2% uplift to the
amount(s) claimed.
Observations
•
Actual production was seemingly less than 15% of the allowance. Allowance to be corroborated
by an ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ and a ‘measured mile’ analysis using contemporary records to
establish the actual production achieved in areas and at times free of disruption.
•
Full breakdown of all Wall Cladding related BQ unit rates to be provided.
•
Contemporary records of resources deployed must be capable of being objectively verified.
Resources to be identified by name, designation and role in the Wall Cladding works.
•
Actual Cost (not rates) to be used. Employment contracts, salary slips, evidence of payment and
the like to be provided.
•
Cost to be abated for Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of
resources, supervision, availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
•
Evidence to be provided of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
•
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) to be checked against
valuations submitted for variations and other claims.
WCD 2
This element comprises the cost of additional Architect / Draftsman and Design Manager Days required
to make changes to documents relating to the Events 2, 3, 5 and 6 i.e. Events where the design and/or
method of installation has been changed. This being the case, then all directly related costs should be
included in the valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption. There may be
some duplication here with the valuations submitted by you for variations and other claims.
WCD 3
For this (second) Scaffold element you claim for the erection and dismantling of 77,535m2 of Scaffold
and rental of the same for a period of 4 weeks. We do not (currently) see how this forms part of a claim
for disruption and in any event consider there may be some duplication here with the valuations
submitted by you for variations and other claims.
We trust that our position regarding disruption claims is clear and that if you intend to pursue any such
claim, then you will structure and submit the same accordingly.
Dear Sir,
We write to express our concern regarding your delays in submission of Rev 0 shop drawing as per the
forecast date.
We note that you failed to adhere to the planned submission date which is evident from the enclosed
shop drawing list.

You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 which
states that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due expedition and without delay,
and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV or Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to take immediate steps to mitigate your
aforementioned delays to avoid any further delays to the Works.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by ourselves and/or Other
Subcontractors arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from you in
accordance with the Subcontract.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced (1) above, you are hereby instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] to install the Check-in Islands solid surfaces with all related components
and canopies in the same manner as described in the abovementioned letter (prior to stone installation
works), for islands C-03-04-05-06-011-012-013 and 014 accordingly.
We hereby reiterate and confirm that you shall be indemnified against any damage caused by other
Subcontractors; however, you shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection
of each part of your Subcontract Works in accordance to Subcontract Agreement Clause 24.2
[Subcontractor’s Care of the Subcontract Works].
Notwithstanding the above, pursuant to Clause 16.2 [Subcontract Time for Completion] you are required
to take such actions as are necessary to complete the works within the respective Times for Completion
specified by the Subcontract Programme as per Clause 16.3 [Subcontract Programme].
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write to record your failure to properly resource the project in terms of your number of HSE officers
on site. This issue has been raised by our HSE Department on many occasions, through numerous
forums. Accordingly, you are hereby advised to take all necessary action correct this issue as a matter of
urgency. In this regard, you are free to coordinate with our HSE department who will assist in any way
practical.
This notice is issued to you pursuant to the Clause 22.1 (Notice to Correct). Furthermore, you are
reminded of your responsibilities to take all necessary measures to fulfil the Project Health and Safety
Procedures in accordance to the Clause 12.14 (Health & Safety Procedures).

This is for your immediate action and attention.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to NCR no 850 and NCR no 869 received by the Contractor in relation to the
settlement of the sewer pipelines and manholes along the perimeter of the MTB. The Contractor
records
the following in this regard:
The reason/s for the settlement is unknown at present and therefore the Engineer/Employer has
verbally
instructed the Contractor to investigate and determine the reason/s behind the settlement. The
Contractor in carrying out this investigatory process is incurring additional Costs (including but not
limited
to: Staff, Labour, Plant, Equipment, appointment of several Subcontractors). At present the following
Subcontractors have been appointed by the Contractor:
Name of Subcontractor Scope of Work
KMG CCTV Inspection of settled sewer lines
Baynounah Laboratories Site Investigation
Robert Bird Specialist Geotechnical Consultant
The Contractor is expending tremendous effort (both time and cost) to conclude the investigatory
process. The Contractor asserts that it is of paramount importance that the Engineer, as well the sewer
network designer (NACO), fully participate and agree on how the investigatory process is to be
conducted,
in order to avoid expending unnecessary time and cost.
Furthermore, as at the date of this letter, the reason/s for the settlement is unknown, the Engineer and
the Parties have not agreed as to which Party is liable for the settlement of the sewer pipelines and
manholes, and therefore ultimately responsible for the rectification of the pipelines and manholes. If it
is
found that the Contractor is not liable for the settlement of the pipelines and manholes, the Contractor
reserves its right to claim for all Costs that has been, and will be incurred, due to this issue.
Yours faithfully

Dear Sir,
We hereby enclosed an updated list of back charges along with the supporting documents on CD for
your review.
In pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), we hereby
confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts but not limited to enclosed, from your interim
payments accordingly. The basis of these charges are mainly derived either from your request, or we

have supplied materials and services on your behalf in connection with your Subcontract Works which
form part of your obligations and responsibilities. In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls
under your responsibility in accordance to Clause 12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors),
whereby you are liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other
Subcontractors for the costs arising out of your failure to perform the obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and after receipt of a letter from M/S Giffin Traffiks LLC (hereinafter
M/S Giffin), informing us of non-accessibility to their work attributable to your various acts or omissions,
we write to inform you of the disruption being caused by you, to the mentioned Subcontractor.
In view of the above and further to our numerous correspondences in regards to your continual delays,
we regret to inform you that your failure to complete the works without delay and your lack of
coordination is hindering access and affecting the works of other Subcontractors.
Accordingly, pursuant to Clause 16.4.1 (a), (b), (c) [Recovery of Delays] your immediate response is
requested with explicit clarity on:
1.
Providing access to the works for M/S Giffin;
2.
Submitting a revised recovery plan and supporting report describing the methods you propose
to adopt in order to provide access to M/S Giffin;
3.
Proceed with the works in due diligence to ensure earliest completion;
You are therefore, required to immediately reply within (7) seven days of receipt, of this letter.
Your attention is also drawn to Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors]
which includes the following:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the Subcontractor agrees
that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors may
perform work on the Site concurrently with the Subcontract Works”.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
“(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the coordination of the
work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the Subcontract Works including timeframes,
programmes and schedules for completion of the Subcontract Works;”;

“(b) take such actions as are necessary to facilitate the work of the Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors, including providing Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors with access to all
essential services and amenities and any place where work is being carried out or Materials are being
prepared or stored; and”;
“(c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other Contractor or Other
Subcontractor”.
For the purpose of preventing any further unnecessary delays we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to proceed with the works as instructed above and provide
immediate and direct access to other Subcontractors (including but not limited to M/S Giffin).
Consequently, please be informed that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to proceed with the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses
including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractors Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Concluding the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the
construction of the Subcontract Works and coordinate with other Subcontractors to avoid further
progress disruption issues.
The above is for your immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear sir
Please find attached letter reference (1) sent by the Other Subcontractor J&H Emirates LLC (Jangho) who
is currently executing the glazing works of the car park link bridges.
Jangho claims that the precast concrete slab edge executed by the Subcontractor is outside the
allowable
tolerance, which in turn is impacting the execution of Jangho's glass panels. Jangho further requires that
the precast concrete surface line is rectified thus enabling it to proceed with the fabrication and
installation of the last bottom glass panel.
Whilst notifying the Subcontractor of a possible event giving rise to a claim under the provisions of
Clause
10.3.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor requests the Subcontractor provides its
comments
(if any) in relation to this event.
Yours faithfully,

Dear Sir,
Please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00285 which is self-explanatory.
Pursuant to clause 11.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract, you are hereby instructed to proceed in
respect
of the works specified therein.
Your cooperation to carry out the above instruction is required.
Yours faithfully,
Dear sir
Further to notice of delay the contractor shares its concerns in respect of the subcontractor failure to
meet the deadlines set out in both revision 10 programme and the memorandum of understanding for
the release of on-account payments to the subcontractor. It is emphasized that, despite the substantial
financial funding provided by the contractor, the subcontractor has been unable to progress the
subcontractor works in a profitable fashion.
Please find below a summary of the status of the payments due to the subcontractor which is selfexplanatory.
To be clear the contractor has paid to the subcontractor more that aed 15 mil in excess to date. These
overpayments have been made in good faith and for the purpose of providing relief to the cash flow
difficulties of the subcontractor who allegedly was unable to pay its suppliers and subcontractor.
It is emphasized that the contractor has continues to provide this financial assistance despite the
subcontractors lack of commencement in respect of achieving the agreed interim milestones. The
contractor regrets that the subcontractors proposed target programme cannot be relied upon and that
no efforts appear to be made to avoid further slippages to the completion dates. For instance the
subcontractor workforce continues to be way below the required level to meet the target dates despite
numerous assurance that additional resources would be procured.
In view of the substantial value of on-accounts payment made to the subcontractor and the lack of
performance witnessed in return, the contractor hereby exercises its rights under the provisions of
clause 21.3.3 of the conditions of subcontract and demands from the subcontractor reasonable
evidence that his subcontractor and suppliers have been paid. Pursuant to the provisions of this clause,
the subcontractor is requested to proceed such reasonable evidence within 3 days of this notice.

Dear sir
The contractor confirms receipt of letter wherein the subcontractor claims that the other subcontractor
damages the works:

1.
In its letters reference 3 the subcontractor attached an observation report which consist of a
simple recollection of pictures, however, no clear evidence is provided in this report that the damage
was actually caused by the wrongdoing of the personnel employed by CSCEC. The contractor reiterates
that the subcontractor shall provide irrefutable evidence that the damage was caused by the other
subcontract in question and/or obtain a statement from the contractor / other subcontractor identifying
the culpable party.
2.
Further, the observation report attached to the subcontractors letter reference 3 provides
neither any evidence not any explanation on how the subcontract works were protected. The contractor
repeats that, pursuant to clauses 15.6.2 and 24.2.1 of the conditions of subcontract, the subcontractor
shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection of each part of the
subcontract works until such time as the TOC certificate is issued by the contractor
3.
In its latest letter reference 1 the subcontractor has just attached some emails sent to the
contractor’s team regarding the damage, however the subcontractor has conveniently omitted the
response given by the contractor on the 7 January 2018 wherein the subcontractor was advised that a
statement from CDCEC or photographic evidence of the damage occurring would be required to clearly
verify that CSCEC was indeed who damaged the glass
4.
Yet again, the subcontractor’s letter reference 1 does not provide sufficient level of information
vis-‘a-vis the cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of the claim.
5.
Despite the lack of evidence provided thus far, the contractor confirms that the subcontractor’s
report has been forwarded to CSEC for its review. Should CSCE provide any comments, these will be
forwarded to the subcontractor in due course.
Should the subcontractor intend to claim compensation vis-‘a-vis this incident, the subcontractor is
reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within 28 days from the date of the events
which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirement of clause 27.1.5 of the conditions of
subcontract.
The contractor urges the subcontractor to comply with all the above as this will form part of the basis of
the contractors assessment.

Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced above (1) and your subsequent correspondence (2) RE: TO M/S NAFFCO
- Updated Pending Materials Log January 3 2018, we hereby write to record our concern over your
failure to fulfil your contractual obligation with regards to the procurement and installation of the
AWW-02 access panels in a timely manner. We draw your attention to the above correspondence 1)
with particular reference to the Package Delineation Plan which clearly highlights the inclusion of
aforementioned access panel(s).
Therefore, we hereby issue a “Notice of Correct” in accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract,
Clause 22.1 which states that:

•
“If the Subcontractor fails to carry out any obligation under the Subcontract, the Contractor may
by notice require the Subcontractor to make good the failure and to remedy it within a specified
reasonable period.."
Accordingly, you are hereby instructed to correct the above to the satisfaction of the Contractor within
fourteen (14) days from receipt of this letter. In addition, it is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or
expenses incurred by us and/or other Subcontractor(s) arising as a result of the above delays shall be at
your risk and recovered from your account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.4 and
16.6.1.
Should you fail to fulfil your contractual obligations following the elapse of this ‘notice of correct’, a
further review of your performance will be undertaken and you will be notified of our decision to
appoint a third party to undertake the aforementioned works, and thus reimbursing the cost thereof
from your account.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Following our trailing email reminder referenced in (3) above, we write to record our concern over your
persistent delay in the procurement, delivery and installation of Gratings in Central Pavilion. This delay
has
now subsequently impacted the completion of the solid surface works as well as the handing over of the
tenants' area.
You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 which
states that
you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due expedition and without delay, and should
neither
delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV or Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above and as a mitigation measure to recover on your delays and remedy your failures,
please
be advised that a third party shall be appointed to execute this scope of works on your behalf. It is noted
that
any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor is arising as a result
of the
above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in accordance with the Subcontract
clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,

We write with regards to the enclosed letter received from M/S Cloisa ll which is self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the contents of the abovementioned letter, we regret to inform you that we
believe your
site personnel have damaged the installed ceiling works on the above location negligently while carrying
out the
works. Subsequently, we have witnessed and signed off M/S Cloisa ll's Daywork records for the
reinstatement cost
that we consider you shall be responsible.
Co nsequently, we request you to provide the comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment of
the same.
Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and back charge all the rei nstatement cost and other
associated cost from
your account according to t he Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims)
and Clause
12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) whereby you are liable for the loss and damages
arising out of
your action.
Should you have any queries, please do not hesitate to discuss further.
Yours faithfully,

Dear Sir,
With reference to M/s. TCA JV's Letter Reference MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/001192 dated 21st of January
2018, kindly be informed that the statement made by M/s. AI Gurair Construction is irrelevant to the
damages made to M/s. Cloisall's ceiling.
As discussed in the attached email correspondence with M/s. TCA JV Engineer, the Scaffolding was
erected by M/s. Cloisall on the gth of January 2017 and the damage done to the Glass Fin was on the
14th of January, thus the broken Glass Fin was damaged after Scaffolding erection and therefore
clearing M/s. Cloisall of any wrong doing.
Also, M/s. AI Gurair Construction has failed to provide a Damage Report witnessed and signed by M/s.
TCAJV in regards to these damages.
In absence of such report, such allegations can't be ascertained and therefore M/s. Cloisall will not
accept any contra charges towards the same either in the time-being and/or in the future for this case
and/or any other similar cases unless it is substantiated with the Damage Report(s) duly signed by
M/s. TCAJV.
Accordingly, M/s. Cloisall requests M/s. TCAJV to raise such notice(s) in a proper timely manner
inclusive of Damage Report(s) duly signed by M/s TCAJV; otherwise, such notice(s) will be considered
as nil and void from M/s. Cloisall's side, and in the time-being, M/s Cloisall rejects such notice and in
return refuses any back charges to be accounted to M/s. Cloisall.
Furthermore, the damage done to the Glass Fin belonging to M/s. AI Gurair Construction is irrelevant

to the damages done to M/s. Cloisall's ceiling by M/s. AI Gurair. M/s. Cloisall reserves its right to claim
any additional cost and time implication since M/s. TCA JV Engineer signed the Damage Report and
the Day Work Sheet submitted by M/s. Cloisall (ref: CL0/0401/MTB- CEILING/CONT/11182/17).
We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter, however, should require any further
information, please contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,

Dear Sir,
With reference to above subject and despite multiple site visits and several email communication
exchanged between us, regarding the F&B Retail downstands progress, you are informed that the works
have failed to progress and the situation has become harmful to the Contractor’s obligations under the
Contract.
Pursuant to Sub Contract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct], states that "If the Subcontractor fails to carry
out any obligation under the Subcontract, the Contractor may by notice require the Subcontractor to
make good the failure and to remedy it within a specified reasonable period."
For the purpose of preventing any further unnecessary delays we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to proceed with the works immediately and complete the
aforementioned works by the date stated below:
28 February 2018
We hereby inform you that if action is not taken and the works are not completed as stated above, you
will be in breach of the Subcontract provisions in accordance with but not limited to Clause 8
[Subcontractor’s Obligations] due to the delay of abovementioned works. We put on record the effects
that may arise out of potentially multiple breaches of the Subcontract provisions as per Clause 22.2.2
(c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default] in an effort to resolve the
issues regarding the completion of F&B Retail Downstands. You are further informed that we will no
longer tolerate your conduct in respect of this matter which may cause delays to the Subcontract Works
for which you shall be held solely responsible.
Pursuant to Clause 22.2.2 (b) [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default] you are reminded
that “The Contractor may, upon giving the Subcontractor seven (7) Days’ notice, terminate the
Subcontract if the Subcontractor fails to comply with a notice under clause 22.1 (Notice to Correct);.”
Notwithstanding the above, you had been instructed multiple times to proceed with the completion of
the aforementioned works but verbally stated non-compliance with the instruction until the issue of a
Variation Order as per Clause 20 [Variations and Adjustments].

In the event whereby the aforementioned statement proves to be truthful, and the construction
activities are indeed delayed pending the issue of an instruction as mentioned above, then you will be
held fully responsible for breach of contract.
Consequently, you will be held fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such potential
breaches and the associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under
the Contract with the Employer. Accordingly, pursuant to Clause 16.4.1 (a), (b), (c) [Recovery of Delays]
your immediate response is requested with explicit clarity on:
1.
Providing a response including specific dates of completion;
2.
Providing all necessary evidence that all required resources are in place to mitigate these ongoing delays;
3.
Proceed with the works in due diligence to ensure earliest completion.
In addition, should you continue to refuse to carry out the work on site, we will have no choice but to
issue a warning for Termination as per Clause 22.2 and request another Subcontractor to execute these
Works and you will be backcharged for the additional costs incurred in accordance with Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 [Delay Damages] and other relevant Clauses.
Finally, we reiterate that this notice to correct is being issued in accordance with Clause 22.1 [Notice to
Correct] of the Subcontract and requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
This is for your information, record and further urgent action.

Yours faithfully,
Dear sir
Further to issuance of our Letter Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001313 dated i h April 2015 and
subsequent e-mail
correspondences on the subject matter, we confirm our decision that was relayed with in the same with
regards to
the cancellation of Contractors Instruction Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/CI/ 00205.
For ease of reference we confirm that Method Statement Reference DS/0401/4537 pertaining to the
lifting &
laying of AHU Sections has been approved. This subsequently negates the requirement of Off Site
Storage
(previously submitted ROM) and works can progress imminently.
As previously requested you are to liaise with our MEP Department in this matter and progress with the
installation of AHU sections on plinths that have already been constructed.

If you believe you have an entitlement to an Extension of Time and/or costs deriving from the same, you
are
advised to formally notify us of the same in accordance with but not limited to Clauses 10.1.3, 16.5.1 (b),
16.2.2
and 27.1. Your submission should be fully substantiated with all relevant documents and required
particulars for
review and onward submission to the Engineer for his determination.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory however if you seek further clarification as to the
content
of the same, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully
Dear sir
Further to the issuance of our Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/000425 via Letter Reference
MTB/TCA/ANEL/L/002135 dated 13 December 2015, we hereby confirm our decision to cancel the
above
Instruction as RFI has been adopted as an alternative solution to supersede this Cl.
We hope the above clarifies our situation. Should you have queries, please do not hesitate to discuss
further.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir
We write pursuant to the Letter of Award refered above and instruction issued with regards to 2 Hr Fire
rated Gypsum Ceiling System, we hereby inform you that the works will not proceed to International
Decor.
We hereby cancelled Contractor's Instruction No. 00033.
This is for your information
Dear sir
We write with reference to our Contractor's Instruction ref: Cl/00145 issued vide letter referenced in (4)
above.
Please be advised that the aforesaid Contractor's Instruction is hereby cancelled, therefore you are
instructed
not to proceed with any works pertaining to the aforesaid scope.
This is for your information, record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,

Dear sir
We recently sent you a transmittal #1 carrying Engineers Instruction El No. 544 amongst other things. It
has come to our knowledge that TCAJV have disputed this El and we would like to recall this from you
until further instructions.
We apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused.

Dear sir
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (3} above requesting us to return the Bond for
cancellation by your bank.
However, please be advised that the proper procedure as per Subcontract as well as the conditions
stated
within the Advance Payment Guarantee should be followed and complied with.
Therefore in this regard, we cannot automatically return one (1) Bond but the val~e of all four (4) Bonds
shall
be reduced proportionately by the same percentage of the amount already recovered as indicated in the
latest Interim Payment Certificate.
·This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write in relation to your above referenced (1) letter regarding the Cancellation and Withdrawal of
RFVO's in relation to reversal of specialist systems value engineering items.
We would again highlight our above referenced (2) letter whereby we have identified that these items
would be captured and closed out through the issue of formal variation orders against the letting of
the respective defined provisional sum packages.
As you state in your letter the defined provisional sum items are paid based on the actual expenditure,
therefore we do not see the merit in reversing these items at this time, when the sums for the DPS will
be instructed for the actual value, and as such the value of the DPS is irrelevant be it including the VE
items or not.
In order to close these items out as you wish, we would encourage you to submit your RFVO for the
ICT, AOS & Security DPS packages so as we can then raise the formal Variation Order whereby we will
then subsequently remove the associated DPS value and replace with the corresponding package
value.
The reversal of the value engineering items therefore has no merit at this time and as such will be
dealt with through the Variation Order process pursuant to Clause 20 of the Conditions of Contract.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed quotation referenced in (3) and LPO in (4) above, please be
advised that we have placed an order to airfreight the glass samples on your behalf due to your failure
to fulfill your subcontract obligation in a timely manner.
We hereby confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts including but not limited to the enclosed in
accordance with Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), from your interim payments accordingly.

In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
10.3.5 and 11.4, whereby you are liable to the Contractor for the costs arising out of your failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed invoice referenced in (3) and LPO in (4), please be advised that
the aforesaid works have been executed on your behalf by M/S Intherpro LLC as a result of your delays
and failure to fulfill your subcontract obligation in a time manner.
We hereby confirm our entitlement to deduct such amounts including but not limited to the enclosed in
accordance with Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s Claims), from your interim payments accordingly.
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
10.3.5 and 11.4, whereby you are liable to the Contractor for the costs arising out of your failure to
perform your obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Further to the above references and our recent discussions wherein we have requested you to provide
the outstanding Cost substantiation for prolongation Costs for EOT 1 for the period: from Nov-14 to
March-15, it is recorded that, as at the date of this letter, you have failed to do so.
You are hereby requested to submit within five (5) days of receipt of this letter the outstanding Cost
substantiation. We note that should you fail to provide the requested substantiation it would prejudice
the outcome of your entitlement (if any) for prolongation Costs for EOT 1.
Furthermore, if we do not receive the requested substantiation within five (5) days of receipt of this
letter, we shall assume that you have waived any and all entitlement during the periods that you had
failed to provide either the requested detailed substantiation or satisfactory substantiation.
For the avoidance of doubt, the request for the outstanding Cost substantiation is not, of itself, to be
considered as an admission of any entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or
payment of additional Costs, nor does it constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,

We write with regards to the enclosed letter received from M/S SITA which is self-explanatory.
Further to our review on the contents of the above letter, we regret to inform you that we believe your
site
Personnel have damaged the display screen while fixing the perforated sheet in between the screen and
structure. Please note your employees have repeatedly committed the same mistakes on different
occasions regardless of our notifications Clause [ Subcontractor’s Care of the Subcontract Works]
We hereby request you to provide the comprehensive explanation to enable our assessment of the
same. Failing such, we shall hold you responsible and back charge all the reinstatement cost and other
associated cost from your account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3
(Contractor's Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) whereby you are
liable for the loss and damages arising out of your action.
Whilst writing, you are hereby advised to implement a strict preventive measure in order to avoid such
incidents in future
This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Mr. Mohammed Nassar- Managing Partner
AU H .06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
SC/028/B- WASTE CHUTES WORKS PACKAGE
WMS letter: WMS/MN/TAM/001/08/2017 dated 28th August
Back Charge Notification -January 2018
Further to your previous requests, we hereby enclose a list of Back Charges for materials purchased on
your behalf due to your inability to supply these materials.
Pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims), we hereby
confirm our entitlement to have deducted the amounts including but not limited to the enclosed from
your interim payments accordingly. The basis of these charges is mainly derived from your requests, the
materials and services we supplied on your behalf in connection with your Subcontract Works which
form
part of your obligations and responsibilities in accordance with Subcontract Agreement - Schedule 11,
Schedule 22, Appendix K- Responsibility Matrix and Appendix L- HSE Violation Schedule.
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors), whereby you are or may be liable to the
Contractor for any claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs
arising

out of your failure to perform the obligations under the Subcontract.
We request your acceptance of the enclosed herewith costs within 14 days in order for us to continue
supply materials on your behalf.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
lan Neville - Project Director
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
SC/006- MEP Work (Mechanical Works)
Nil
Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00603 - Instruction to Proceed with Plumbing &
Drainage Works to Security Booths on DAS Bridge, L2.0 Departure Curb
Please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00603 which is self explanatory.
In pursuant to Clauses 11.3 and 20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Subcontract, you are hereby instructed to
proceed with the works as specified therein.
Whilst this instruction is issued in pursuant to Clause 20.1.1(a), the Subcontractor will be required to
demonstrate contractual entitlement to a Variation for each and every item and provide all the
necessary
substantiations to verify the cost of each potential Variation.
Your cooperation to carry out the above Instruction with due expectation is required .
Yours faithfully,
Stuart Matthews
Project Director
Enclosure:

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the issuance of Variation Order No 16
reference 2 above and several previous communication between us, instructing you to proceed with the
subject works, we regret to inform you that you have failed to do so.
Furthermore, it is noted that the situation has not improved despite our recurrent instructions to
proceed with the works without any delay. Unfortunately, we record that you have failed to carry out
any of these instructions, and the activities on site are continuing to worsen in regards to unrecoverable
slippages and time delays which subsequently will affect the entire activities.
Evidently, you are reminded that you were aware of the key dates to be achieved as these dates were
enclosed to our previous correspondence and communication and you were instructed to view them
against your progressed Programme and proceed with the works expeditiously and without delay.

On account of such failure, we now have the right to give notice to you terminating the Subcontract
(under Clause 22.2.2 (b), (c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default], or
omit section(s) of the Subcontract Works under Clause 22.2.4. We hereby confirm and notify you, that
we are proceeding initially to omit the abovementioned sections of Subcontract Works and we expressly
reserve the right to subsequently notify of further omissions of sections of the Subcontract Works, on
account of your failure to proceed with the works.
In view of the above, pursuant to Clause 11 .3 [Instructions of the Contractor] we hereby issue an official
instruction for the Total Omission of the Supply and Installation of Lighting Lozenges Subsequent to the
Benchmark approval at Central Processor L0.0 issued with VO 16 from your Scope of Works under the
Contract. The above mentioned Contractor’s Instruction is issued in the form of a Negative Variation
Order No 16.1 as per Clause 20 [Variations and Adjustments] amounting to an Omission of AED 6,837,389.85 (Six Million Eight Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand Three Hundred Eighty Nine Dirhams and
Eight Five Fils).
This notice and the omission of sections of the Subcontract Works are without prejudice to all of our
other rights under the Contract and at law, including our right to instruct further subsequent omissions.
Moreover, the terms and conditions of the Subcontract Agreement shall also apply to this Variation
Order No 16.1 for De-scoping the said Works.
The provisions of Sub-Clauses 22.3 [Consequences of Termination for Subcontractor Default] to 22.5
[Payment after Termination for Subcontractor Default] of the Conditions of Subcontract shall apply to
the omitted section, as if the Subcontract had been terminated in respect of such section. As such, you
are required to comply with them.
Additionally, be informed that this Negative Variation Order No 16.1 has no time implications in respect
of the Subcontract Works.
Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.
Yours faithfully,

TCAJV correspondence
Dear Sir,
With regards to the above subject and reference to our letter MTB/TCA/BOND/L/000 l 05,

please note that we have not received any response from you till to date.
Further to our previous letter, we hereby de-scope all relevant interface PBB Cabling
Works. Subsequently, we will be issuing a negative Variation Order 'for this scope based
on the Schedule of Rates as summarised below.

Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- MTB Project
1. Letter of Award (LOA) for Design, Fabrication, Supply and
Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Work Package
dated 23 October 2013
2. Minutes of Rosano Progress Meeting No.18 held on 31 August2014
3. TCAJV email dated 01 September 2014 (by Mr. Abhulimhen Peter)
4. Workshop held on 11 September 2014
Notice of Delay and Lack of Coordination by Rasana Sd/~
~
cf<;z ... ~~74We write with reference to the Letter of Award signed for the Design, Fabrication, Supply
and Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Subcontract Works Package
dated 23 October 2013 and further to Item no.7 of the Minutes of RASANA Progress
Meeting No.18 dated 31 August 2014 which states, inter alia, that "No elevator Shaft
frame in the Piers is complete. RASANA has completed survey works for all lifting beams
on site. ( ... ) RASANA is to coordinate with TCAJV and OTIS site team ... "and the agreed
"sequence of the handover of Elevator Shaft Works", and TCAJV email dated 01
September 2014 which states " ... Currently no shaft frame is complete at site (RASANA
are stepping up efforts to close out the NCR and complete one shaft- EL V 03-22 by next

week)" and the workshop held with you on 11 September 2014 regarding the delays in
your Works and lack of coordination with other trade/s (all referred to above) and the
enclosed "RASANA's MTB PROJECT- ELEVATOR SHAFTS PROGRAM dated 04 September
2014" (enclosed) which shows delays in your Works.
Under Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] your
obligations include:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the
Subcontractor agrees that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently with
the Subcontract Works.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the
coordination of the work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the
Subcontract Works including timeframes, programmes and schedules for completion of
the Subcontract Works;( ... ) (c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other
Contractor or
Other Subcontractor ( ... ) . ".
Accordingly, you are hereby requested to coordinate your Works including the design
with Other Subcontractors (including but not limited to Otis) and coordinate the shop
drawings with the Engineer.
Subcontract 12.12.3 further provides that:
"12. 12.3 The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays,
disruptions and costs it may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be
performed by Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with
its obligations pursuant to this clause 12. 12 including but not limited to those interfaces set
out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) ( ... ).The Subcontractor

agrees that it shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply with its obligations
pursuant to this clause 12. 12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for
submission of the tender.
12. 12.4 The Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer,
Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors (or any other contractor, Sub-subcontractor
or supplier) for costs, monies, loss, expense, damage or otherwise, arising out of or in
connection with a breach of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the
Subcontract.".
Furthermore, it is noted that under Subcontract Clause 16.6.1 if you fail to comply with the
approved Subcontract Programme you shall indemnify and hold us harmless against all
damages, costs, losses and expenses incurred by us in connection with your delays.
Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to
comply with clause 16.2 (Subcontract Time for Completion), the Subcontractor shall,
subject to clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims), pay delay damages to the Contractor for
this default.".
Finally, you are hereby instructed to submit site progress reports on a weekly basis which
shall be made available at every weekly meeting. You are also instructed under
Subcontract Clause 16.4.1 to submit us your revised recovery plan and supporting report
describing the revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite your
progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion ..
The above is for your immediate action.
Dear Sir,

We hereby write to your letter dated 11 May 2015 (the "Letter") which you wrote further to our
letter dated 19 March 2015 stating TCAJV "have instructed [GPC] to provide all necessary means to
accelerate the works ... ", your letter dated 20 June 2015 which you wrote further to our letter dated 18
May 2015 whereby we instructed you under the Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to submit a revised
Subcontract Programme within fourteen {14) days for our approval that complies with the Milestone
Dates, your Submission dated 26 April 2015 which attached your Acceleration Schedule, and your
Submission dated 27 April 2015 which enclosed your cost analysis associated with the Acceleration
Schedule.
By way of clarification, we provide below the "non-exhaustive" chronology for the events following
TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015 and recent correspondence regarding acceleration of your Works
and
our comments.
• TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015 attached a set of keydates in respect of GPC's Subcontract Works
that need to be achieved to support the Employer's strategy, and instructed GPC "to view the dates in
Appendix A against your progressed current approved Programme and to consider the measures that
[GPC] will need to take ... (the 'Measures') to meet these dates in preparation for a 'brain storming'
workshop to be called within the next seven (7} days ... ".
• GPC's letter dated 28 March 2015 stated, inter alia, that they had only achieved 35.08% progress of
the Project as of 19 March 2015 which had taken them 18 months of production and 17 months of
site works, and claimed that this was due to various issues they were not responsible from. It also
stated that they were requested to complete the remaining 65% of the works by 30 October 2015; "in
a net of less than 8 months" and explained the difficulties in doing so. it also stated that the dates
provided were impractical to achieve and could not be achieved irrespective of the measures taken to
accelerate. The letter concluded that it was not "reasonable to expect any acceleration in the works
and completion of the works before the completion as stipulated by the Rev.OS program.".
• Via their letter dated 14 April 2015, GPC submitted their ''Accelerated Programme and Cost

Associated'' with reference to TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015, their letter dated 28 March 2015
and to a meeting held with TCAJV on 08 April 2015. They confirmed their "adherence to [TCAJV]
instruction ... dated 19th Mar'15, in which [TCAJV] requested [GPC] to provide all the necessary means
to accelerate job.".
• GPC's letter dated 26 April 2015 regarding Submission of their ''Accelerated Programme - Work
Analysis'' attached their Acceleration Schedule, made reference to TCAJV's letter dated 19 March
2015 and a meeting held with TCAJV on 08 April 2015, and stated, inter alia, that this letter superseded
their letter dated 14 April 2015.
• The Submission via GPC's letter dated 27 April2015 with subject "Cost Associated to the Accelerated
Program" enclosed their cost analysis associated with the acceleration program and noted that they had
proceeded in recruitment and arranging the needed resources and planned to start deploying the
resources by end of that month. The Submission also listed GPC's requirements "in order for [Gulf
Precast] to abide with this accelerated program and to secure these resources to mobilise on time ... "
and included, inter alia, details of advance payment request and further payments for the acceleration.
• On 05 May 2015, GPC sent a reminder regarding the "Cost associated with the acceleration program"
and stated that till the date of this letter they had not received TCAJV's approval on their acceleration
cost and a clear agreement on paying GPC the 25% advance payment by 07 May 2015, which they stated
was their pre-requisite to follow the acceleration plan as per their letter dated 27 April 2015.
• GPC's letter dated 09 May 2015 stated that their Subcontract Price to execute the Subcontract Works
was AED 130,675,000.00 but "Unfortunately~ more than a year into the Project execution~ we find
ourselves having incurred huge unforeseen costs, with our actual costs of the project of AED
901 3631873.04 up to 31st March 2015 which is 72.76% of the revised subcontract value, while we have
only completed about 40% of the project till date. ". GPC estimated that their cost at completion would
exceed AED 228,341,020.69 (191.92% of the revised subcontract value) and added that "With such
massive loss on this project", they were now in the middle of a deep financial crisis that would affect the
very existence of their Company. GPC also provided the reasons for such costs increase and requested
TCAJV's review of their Subcontract Price.
• GPC's Letter dated 11 May 2015 stated that TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015, had " ... instructed
[GPC] to provide all necessary means to accelerate the works on the above mentioned Project"~ in their
letter dated 26 April 2015 they had outlined in full detail how they planned to accelerate the works,
including " ... a detailed programme outlining the deployment of these resources area by area and week
by week until final completion", and that in their letter dated 27 April 2015 they had included a full cost
analysis of the acceleration process as well as a request for advance payment of 25% of the acceleration

cost. It stated, inter alia, that they had met with [TCAJV's] team on the date of the letter and claimed
that the following were discussed and agreed:
"1. Due to the very tight financial situation of Gulf Precast at present, Gulf Precast is not able to shoulder
alone the financial responsibility of deploying the needed extra resources, equipment and material to
achieve the desired acceleration targets.
2. M/s TCAJV is proposing to assist Gulf Precast by assigning to Gulf Precast some of its supervisory staff,
hiring some others, assisting with Subcontractors, as well as procuring the necessary scaffolding,
supporting platforms, equipment and materials required to meet the acceleration targets, all in
coordination between both parties.
3. The cost of such assistance shall be advanced by the TCAJV and considered as part of the acceleration
cost to be awarded to Gulf Precast, and shall supersede and replace our previous estimated cost for
such items in our letter dated 2ih April {13040-GPC-PDHW-TCA. TV-MTB-0285 mentioned above.
4. The above financial assistance shall continue until Gulf Precast receives the requested advance
payment of 25% of the acceleration sum, and subsequently the balance of the acceleration monies after
deducting the TCAJV advances towards acceleration.". GPC also added their requirements for the above
alleged agreement to be workable.
• TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 stated that in their letter dated 19 March 2015 they had enclosed a
series of dates and instructed GPC to review and to propose what GPC would have to do differently in
order to achieve the dates for sectional Taking Over. It also noted ·that subsequently, GPC had attended
workshops to present their proposals, and concerns, related to engineering, procurement and
construction and the additional measures to be taken to ensure the dates were achieved. The letter
further stated that based on these discussions and feedback provided by GPC, a Programme Rev
6 had been produced and submitted to the Engineer for his approval under the Agreement with the
Employer. The letter attached "A copy of this Programme Rev 6, filtered for [GPC's] element of the
Works", added that '~ny significant changes required by the Engineer will be notified to you in due
course.", and instructed GPC pursuant to Clause 16.3.3 of the Conditions of Sub-Contract to submit a
revised Subcontract Programme within fourteen {14) days for their approval that complies with the
Milestone Dates, the intent of the Programme Rev 6, the requirements of Clause 16.3.1, and which
reflects the actual start and finish dates for completed or in progress activities as required by Clause
16.3.2.
• On 25 May 2015, GPC submitted their EOT and Associated Claim (received by TCAJV on 28 May 2015).
• On 01 June, 2015 a meeting was held between the Parties whereby technical, financial issues,
including the below, were discussed:
1- GPC's issues regarding their tight financi

al situation and that they could not accelerate without advance payment and their payment request as
stated in their letter dated 11 May 2015 as per their alleged meeting and agreement with TCAJV
management were suggested to be elevated to management.
2- GPC's letter dated 09 May 2015 under Item 1 d, e and f, were discussed. Since the precast concrete
beam (which was in the schematic design drawings only) changed to steel beam structure, GPC claimed
it (and the connection} was not within their scope of work. However, they stated, with good intent ions,
had already carried out the design steel beam structure, steels struds and the connection.
3- TCAJV rejected that the precast beam was not in GPC's scope as it was clearly shown on the drawings
and stated that if GPC intended to claim variation for this item, this should be considered as negative
variation for the original beam and variation for the new steel beam structure and to take responsibility
for their design. TCAJV also requested GPC to send their design for the steel beam structure along with
the estimated costs. GPC to agreed to do so within 2 days (along with their clarification letter}. 4- TCAJV
stated that GPC's EOT claim had to be submitted for the Engineer's decision/assessment after TCAJV's
review of the same. GPC was requested to continue to meet with the TCAJV's claims/EOT team who will
carry out their EOT review and assist them in maximizing their entitlement. TCAJV also stated that only
after this process, GPC's entitlement to the relevant costs may be determined.
• GPC's letter dated 20 June 2015 (which TCAJV received on 23 June 2015) stated, inter alia, that they
submitted their acceleration programme (data date- 1st Apr '15) and associated costs via their letter
dated 26 April 2015 and followed up the submission with requests to confirm the acceptance of the
programme as well as release of associated acceleration costs enabling them to finance the acceleration
and added that "in the absence of which, we had stated, we will be unable to accelerate the works.".
Moreover, GPC expressed their concern with reference to TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 and stated
that " ... TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 24th May '15 has a data date of 1st Mar '15,
and this program does not match our acceleration program with a data date of 1st Apr '15 submitted via
our afore-mentioned letter on 26th Apr '15, os it has different sequence of works, durations and
completion dates for zones/bridges, while we were progressing on site since 15r Apr '15 as per the
acceleration program submitted to you ( ... ). Consequently, by the time we received the rev.06 program
on 24th May '15, the actual progress was already out of line from the planned dates of the rev.06
program.". GPC confirmed TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 had instructed them pursuant to
Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to revise their subcontract programme of works (Current Baseline
Programme) as per the extract of fTCAJV's] rev.06 program (data date - 1" Mar '15). GPC attached their
"target program for
the works remaining as of 28th Feb' 15" in compliance with TCAJV's rev.06 program and stated that
"once the revised subcontract programme is approved, it shall supersede the previously agreed
subcontract program ( ... ) This effectively translates to an instruction to revise our subcontract
programme of works to achieve revised completion dates, and increase our resources to achieve the
required acceleration.". GPC also noted that "... various planned start/finish dates of the rev.06 program
had elapsed by the time we received your program as well as the fact that the sequence of works

planned in the program is different from the actual progress on site, we cannot take responsibility for
undue delays to the project when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program),
and any consequences of such delays.". The letter also referred to a meeting held on 02 June 2015 at
TCAJV site office and claimed the issues including the below were discussed.
"1. GPC expressed concern on the fact that TCAJV is instructing GPC via its above mentioned letter to
revise the currently approved subcontract programme pursuant to clause 16.3.3 which states among
other things "the Subcontractor shall, without additional compensation, coordinate and revise its
subcontract programme accordingly and as directed by the Contractor" while GPC believes it is entitled
for two costs namely, the prolongation/ extension of time costs and the acceleration costs.
2. Mr. Atakhan of TCAJV clarified that the word "compensation" in the phrase "without additional
compensation" refers to the cost incurred by our Planning Department in "the exercise of revising the
programme" and not the consequential execution costs resulting from revising the programme
dates/rates of execution by increasing resources, and that GPC is duly entitled to such costs or any other
costs under contractual entitlement.
3. Subsequently, it was noted that GPC is to submit a new programme in compliance with the extract of
the revision #6 programme attached to TCAJV's afore-mentioned letter, for the works remaining as of
2B'h Feb '15. 4. With regards to the first EOT claim & prolongation costs in place (as referenced above),
it was noted that TCAJV is currently reviewing the Time Impact Analysis {TIA) programmes and the
associated costs submitted by GPC via its letter ref: 156/ES/SM/13040 dt 25th May '15, and will revert
shortly." GPC's Financial Issues:
In view of the above chronology, your letter dated 28 March 2015 claimed that you had only achieved
35.08% progress of the Project as of 19 March 2015 which had taken you 18 months of production and
17 months of site works due to various issues you were not responsible from, and stated that you were
requested to complete the remaining 65% of the works by 30 October 2015 "in a net of less than 8
months". It also concluded that the dates provided were impractical to achieve and could not be
achieved irrespective of the measures taken to accelerate and that it was not "reasonable to expect any
acceleration in the works and completion of the works before the completion as stipulated by the Rev.
OS program.". However, following workshops, meetings, discussions held, you submitted your
"Accelerated Programme and Cost Associated" on 14 April 2015 which confirmed your "adherence to
[TCAJV] instruction ... dated 19th Mar'15, in which [TCAJV] requested [GPC] to provide all the necessary
means to accelerate job.". You superseded this letter via your letter dated 26 April 2015 whereby you
submitted your acceleration analysis. On 27 April 2015 you submitted your "Cost Associated to the
Accelerated Program" noting that you had proceeded in recruitment and arranging the needed
resources and planned to start deploying the resources by end of that month but listed your
requirements which included 25% advance payment toward the acceleration costs.
On the other hand, your letter dated 09 May 2015 stated that you had incurred 1'huge unforeseen
costs" to your Subcontract Price with our actual costs of the project being 72.76% of the revised
subcontract value (up to 31st March 2015}, while you had only completed about 40% of the project till

date of the letter. You estimated that your cost at completion would exceed 191.92% of the revised
subcontract value and added that due such massive loss on this project, you were now in the middle of a
deep financial crisis and requested TCAJV's review of their Subcontract Price. You claimed that the listed
reasons attributed to such increased costs.
We remind you that under the Subcontract Clause 12.17.2 17he Subcontractor agrees that the
Subcontract Price covers all of the Subcontractor's obligations under the Subcontract ... and all things
necessary for the proper design (to the extent required by the Subcontract), execution and completion
of the Subcontract Works and the remedying of any defects.". However, if you believe you are entitled
to additional costs1 subject to Subcontract Clause 21.2 [Adjustments to the Subcontract Price]. you
should submit your claims in strict compliance with Subcontract Clause 27.1 [Subcontractor's Claims].
GPC's Letter dated 11 May 2015:
In the Letter, you referred to an alleged meeting dated 11 May 2015 whereby you claimed the issues
listed in the chronology (above) were discussed and allegedly If agreed". However, we hereby note that
this meeting not been recorded/minuted by the Parties. Accordingly, you are requested to provide us
records of this meeting. We hereby urge you that such crucial meetings whereby agreements and/or
decisions are allegedly made are recorded and agreed by the Parties in writing and not selectively
quoted in letters in support of arguments.
Moreover, the Letter listed your requirements regarding the acceleration costs and concluded that "In
case we do not receive any feedback from your side by Thursday, 14th May 2015 and taking into
consideration the time criticality of the issue, we will consider that the above-mentioned is agreed by
both parties." which we rejected via our email dated Wednesday, May 13, 2015 2:00 PM with subject
"GPRECAST letter ref: 13040-GPC-PD-HW-TCAJV-MTB-0297/Cost Associated to the Accelerated
Program", and stated that it was not acceptable. Regarding TCAJV's assistance to GPC due to their "very
tight financial situation" and the requested advance payment of 25% of the acceleration sums, we
hereby note that during our meeting held on 01 June 2015 you were requested/advised to elevate your
financial issues to TCAJV management. GPC's letter dated 20 June 2015:
We hereby note your statement " ... TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 241h May '15
has a data date of 1st Mar '15, and this program does not match our acceleration program with a data
date of 1st Apr '15 submitted via our afore-mentioned letter on 26h Apr '15, ... we were progressing on
site since 1st Apr '15 as per the acceleration program submitted to you.".
Regarding your statement that "TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 24th· May '15 has a
data date of 1st Mar '15, and this program does not match our acceleration program ... submitted via
our afore-mentioned letter on 2£1h Apr '15 ... Consequently, by the time we received the rev.o6
program on 24th May '15, the actual progress was already out of line from the planned dates of the
rev.06 program ( .. .) various planned start/finish dates of the rev.06 program had elapsed by the time
we received your program as well as the fact that the sequence of works planned in the program is
different from the actual progress on site, we cannot take responsibility for undue delays to the project

when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program), and any consequences of
such delays", we provide our comments as below:
First of all, it is evident from the chronology, you were aware of the key dates to be achieved as per
early as 19 March 2015 as these dates were enclosed to our letter and you were instructed to view them
against your progressed current approved Programme and to consider the measures that you would
need to take. Moreover, in the event you needed to accelerate your Subcontract works in order to meet
the revised dates you were required to demonstrate the additional Costs. Secondly, as stated in our
letter dated 18 May 2015 subsequent to our instruction on 19 March 2015, "you attended workshops to
present your proposals/ and concerns, related to engineering, procurement and construction and the
additional measures to be taken to ensure the dates were achieved ... ", and based upon our discussions
and your feedback a Programme Rev 6 had been produced and submitted for the Engineer's approval.
Accordingly, we attached a copy of the Programme Rev 6 filtered for your Works to our letter and
instructed you pursuant to Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to submit a revised Subcontract Programme for
our approval that complies with, including, the Milestone Dates and the intent of the Programme Rev 6.
Accordingly, we reject your statement that you "cannot take responsibility for undue delays to the
project when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program)/ and any
consequences of such delays". Furthermore, despite you submitted your acceleration "target program
for the works remaining as of 28th Feb/ 15" in compliance with TCAJV's rev.06 program" via your letter
dated 20 June 2015, we hereby note that to date you have not submitted the cost associated with your
acceleration programme dated 20 June 2015 which revised your Submission dated 26 April 2015.
Nonetheless, you have been requesting TCAJV to release advance payment for the acceleration costs
you submitted on 27 April 2015 associated with your Accelerated Programme dated 26 April 2015
stating that the 25% advance payment was your "prerequisite" to follow the acceleration plan which is
now replaced by target programme dated 20 June 2015 for which you have not submitted the
associated costs.
Regarding your reference to a meeting held on 02 June 2015 at TCAJV site office, we are not aware of a
meeting held with you on this date but note that a meeting was held with you at our offices on 01 June
2015. While we disagree with the alleged meeting's date, we agree the issues discussed during this
meeting included those you listed in addition to those we set out above. Finally, in view of the above,
you are required to submit your costs associated with your acceleration programme submitted on 20
June 2015 which shall be reviewed by us and submitted for the Engineer's assessment. Regarding
assistance due to your "very tight financial situation", we hereby suggest you to meet and discuss your
financial issues with TCAJV management.
Yours truly,
Dear Sir,
We refer to the above and the scope defined for the Concrete Screed Works for the Midfield Terminal
Building Project in the signed Subcontract Agreement dated 30 December 2014 with reference
MTB/TCA/PPAINTIN G/L/000007.

We have reviewed our current needs and accordingly we are issue this Variation No. 1 to the Concrete
Screed Works Package for Abu Dhabi International Airport- Midfield Terminal Building Project. Descope
works under this Variation is detailed in the enclosed "Scope of Descope Works" (Attachment 1),
Descoped Amount is included at "Time Cost Report Sheet" (Attachment 2.1), Revised Contract Amount
is updated at "Adjusted Contract Price" (Attachment 2.2), as well as "Variation Details" (Attachment 3)
are enclosed. The terms and conditions of the aforesaid Subcontract Agreement shall also apply to this
Variation No.1 for Descope Works of 100,000m2 of 70mm thick Screed to Floors.
Note: In order to confirm this variation order, please sign and return, (1) this original letter and (2) the
attached duplicate original Time/Cost Record and Adjusted Contract Price Sheets for our signature, in
which fully signed copy will be forwarded to you, then Contract Price will be adjusted accordingly.
On behalf of the TCA JV,
Subject: Omission of Works as per Cl-00310 under Clauses 22.2.4 and 20
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Notices to Correct, identified above, and issued as mentioned ('Notice'). The Notices
required you to make good and remedy the failures identified in the Notices, no later than seven (7)
days after the date of the Notice. You have failed to make good and remedy the failures. On account of
such failure, we now have the right to give notice to you terminating the Subcontract (under Clause
22.2.2(b)), or omit section(s) of the Subcontract Works (under Clause 22.2.4).
We hereby confirm and notify you that we have elected to initially omit the sections of Subcontract
Works as per our letter referenced in (1) above and as identified in Schedules 1 to this Notice, and we
expressly reserve the right to subsequently notify of further omissions of sections of the Subcontract
Works, on account of your failure to comply with the Final Notice identified above.
We will shortly issue you with a Variation Order for the omission of the sections of Subcontract Works
identified herein however please be advised, that the preclusion against the instruction of omitted work
to another contractor does not apply to any work omitted under Clause 22.2.4, following the issuance of
a Notice to Correct. We confirm that, in accordance with Clause 22.2.4, the provisions of Clause 22.3 and
22.5 sha ll apply to the omitted sections.
This notice and the omission of sections of the Subcontract Works are without prejudice to all of our
other rights under the Contract and at law, including our right to instruct further subsequent omissions.
Additionally, please be advised that the following Packages are still within your scope of works therefore
AGCA must continue with their execution without any further delay
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference {1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).

As we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to
give to other contractors.1 You attempt to excuse the Employer from this rule by referring to the
definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e ., that a Variation includes "a) the addition, omission or
substitution of any work or any part thereof' . It appears that you read this provision as permitting the
Engineer to instruct the omission of work for whatever reason it sees fit, including to give to other
contractors. This interpretation is inconsistent with industry understandings of the language, which
considers that this clause only relates to genuine omissions, and not omissions in order for the Employer
to contract that work elsewhere.
We note that Clause 22.2.4 states that where the Employer descopes the Contractor's work for cause,
the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission. [.
. .]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time." Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the
right to omit works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties knew how to
expressly provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer could
omit works for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be
entirely redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1; even more, the Engineer could
avoid the Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission
under Clause 1.1.
You also dispute the proper remedy for this breach. Under UAE law, at the very least, the remedy for
such a breach is the contractor's lost profits and lost overheads. Against this, you refer to BOQ, Schedule
6, Preamble 12 to claim that "[t]he Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads
on the value of any omitted works." For the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours faithfully,
Dear sir
We write in relation to RFVO {1) related to Engineer's Instruction No. 430- De-scope of Beam Seating
Compensation. In the Request for Variation Order, the Contractor claimed that due to the instruction to
de-scope beam seating, considers the omission a breach of Contract and that as a result is entitled to
recovery of costs and profit associated with the omission. The Contractor has calculated the costs that it
considers is entitled based on 11.11% (Overheads and Profit) of the omitted Scope - Beam Seating i.e

AED 22,190,603.75. The RFVO is for the amount of AED 2,465,378.08. The Conditions of Contract are
very explicit with regards to varying works. The definition of Variation in the General Conditions (Clause
1.1) includes; " .... a) the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof" The
Engineer considers that the omission of the beam seating falls within the definition of Variation and
rejects the Contractor's assertion that issuance of Engineer's Instruction No. 430 constitutes a breach of
Contract.
With regard to the Contractor calculation of the amount due (AED 2,465,378.08 for profit and
overheads}, the Engineer has previously written to the Contractor (letter reference 6102} referring to
Schedule 6- Bills of Quantities (of the Conditions of Contract)- Preamble 12;
"The rates inserted in the Bill of Quantities will be used to value any Variations to the Works, whether
omissions or additions. The Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the
value of any omitted Works" Based on the Contractor's submission, RFV0/0401/1408 is rejected and a
Variation Order in the amount requested will not be issued.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sirs,
We refer to the above mentioned subject pursuant to Sub-Contract Clause 11 .3 of the Condition of Subcontract, we hereby issue an official instruction for the Total Omission of the Baggage Handling Storage
Cover from your scope of works under the contract.
We hereby confirm the above mentioned Contractor Instruction in the form of Variation Order No. OOJ
amounting to an Omission of (AED.1,471,253.35) as attached.
Please confirm your acceptance of this Variation Order by signing and stamping both copies of the
Variation Order and returning the same to us immediately. One fully an duly executed Variation Order
shall be provided to you as confirmation of our Contract Value Adjustment.
This is for your information and action.
Yours truly,
Moreover, regardless of the acceptance of both parties on this variation, we would like to implicate that
this does not relieve the subcontractor to all his responsibilities and obligations under the subcontract
as well as fulfilling the terms and conditions of the agreement {LOA).
Dear sir
We hereby write pursuant to the above for "Design (If any), Supply, Installation and the Rectification of
defects therein of the Duty Free Canopy Work Package" and with regards to the above mentioned
subject matter in response to your letter referenced 2) above requesting to descope GLZ-37 as well as
PPE Sockets. We hereby inform you that the request has been rejected and you are to proceed with the
execution of your Subcontract works in line with your obligations.

We further remind you of your responsibility to implement. all items priced within the Bill of Quantities
and thus forming your Scope of Works as agreed during the Tender Stage and therefore included within
the Subcontract Agreement. Additionally, it is not beneficial for us to descope certain items and source
them elsewhere as this requires time and results in additional abortive costs.
This is for your information, record and further necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Notice to correct: Slow Progress, non-performance and Undeliverable Recovery
Plans as of 31st July 2017
We write this notice to record our utmost concern of your continual failure to respond to our repeated
notices
to correct your slow rates of progress and your failure to advise and take remedy actions to correct the
same,
which lead to irrecoverable delays that affected the project and impinged on your contractual and
financial
standing.
We repeat, that it is of paramount importance that you counter this adverse situation by recognising the
key
concerns relayed to you throughout this notice and advice rectification measures within (7 days) of
receiving
this notice, Which should include ;
1. A "Detailed Mitigation and recovery Plan" with supporting report as per Subcontract Clause 16.4.1
2. Deploying additional engineering resources to recover from engineering delays (Shop Drawings, BIM
etc.)
3. Attend a Recovery for Mock-Ups Submission which had exceeded.
4. Complete balance material submission and any balance pre-construction trades.
5. To increase your fabrication and production yield to satisfy site requirements and work fronts.
6. To deploy additional site resources to recover from your low productivity and installation delays.
7. Ensure your progress reporting is accurate and is done with the approved program to stay in control

I
of the project status.
Within the context of the above listed measures, The following sections denote the status of your works
as of
30th July 2017 and accounts for the delays that you will need to address and work towards rectifying
Based on our reco rds (refer to Attachment 1}, your shop drawings approval status as of 31st July 2017
are 3297 drawings out of 4199 total, compared to 3289 drawings on 301h May 2017.
At eight (8) drawings approved between 31't July 2017 and 30th May 2017, this is a slippage from the
previous period's figures, and your progress rate remains below the required rate needed to recover
from the serious delays incurred towards all succeeding phases that follow drawings development.
We advise you to continue to mitigate and recover your shop drawings activities, including adding
resources in an effo rt to aid the recovery process.
A.2) Status Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Our records (Refer to Attachment 2) depict that you have submitted 212 models out of the tot al 247
(85.8% compared to the planned 100%), your BIM model submittal status as of 31st July 2017 is as
follows;
Out of the targeted total of 247 models you have submitted 212 models where 15.3% are approved
models {38 models), 48.6% are partially approved models -code 2*- {120 models), 3% under review
(9 Models), 14.2% not submitted (35 models not yet submitted) and 17.8% are unresolved models
due to your BIM shortfalls (44 models), these figures exclude the omitted items.
In addition to the continuing disturbing status, we flag out that some models has been in an inactive
since twelve months! These models are overdue and reached a critical state were their absence is
preventing Other Subcontractors from proceeding with their coordination models and consequently
their onsite works, particularly the following models;
• Lifts Enclosures models,
• Levels CP 0.0 and CP 0.1 models,

• All models for doors across all piers including gatehouses doors
• Glass Screens models for CP L2 .0 and L3.0
In addition to the belated models mentioned above we also, put on record the following issues that
we raised to you via official BIM transactions (as sighted), but they remain unresolved -some as late
as fourteen months;
This situation has not improved for many months now, and despite our recurrent notices, warning
letters and repeated calls for you to provide an organizational structure for your BIM resources, and to
device a recovery plan to recover from these delays. Unfortunately, we record that you have failed to
carry out any of these instructions, and the BIM models development and coordination state is
continuing to worsen in regards to slippages and time delays.
Considering this poor state of affairs, we reserve our rights to deploy additional BIM resources to aid
you in recovering the long-overdue BIM models, taken into consideration that the additional
resources shall work in tandem with your team and you will be back-charged for these resources
accordingly; nonetheless this this will not alleviate you from your responsibility towards providing
necessary resources to recover from the poor status of progress of the models submission particularly
those that are still unresolved to date (32% or 81 models not yet resolved or not submitted for more
than 12 months now).
A.3) Submittal and Approval of Mock-ups
Our records indicate that as of 301
h July 2017 the following Mock-Ups are still unapproved # MSA,
MSC, M44, M10, M38, M13, M14, El, M45 and M21 to an array of reasons. This status remained
unchanged for the past Fourteen months (ONE YEAR, TWO MONTHS!) despite our numerous notices
over the past periods. (Refer Attachment 3)
Regrettably, you have failed to assign any recovery effort as instructed throughout our previous
instruction, in particular MTB/TCA/ ALGHURAIR/l/000523 and 0664, and your lack of action is causing

unrecoverable slippages to the mock-up approval and subsequently the entire activities that follow
the approved mock-ups namely, Engineering, Procurement, and Installation.
Given that mock-ups are a predecessor to the fabrication and construction of the mock-ups
themselves and actual site construction of the permanent items, and considering that you lost 14
months without resolving mock-up issues, and notwithstanding culpable delays issues; we reiterate
our instruction that you need to take a serious action to address this chronic issue, starting by
assigning an accountable and responsible team to liaison with our construction department to foresee
the resolution of any mock-up residual issues.
Given this state, we are left with no other option but to reserve our right to back charge you towards
any damages direct or otherwise that may be attributed to this long overdue and critically delayed
project deliverable.
B. Delays to Material Submittal, Order and Fabrication
B.1 Material Submittal & Approval
Reference is made to (Attachment 4) that details that as of 301
h July 2017 the remaining materials that
are yet to be submitted and the materials that were submitted but has failed to meet approval
standards
8.2 Material order, Fabrication and Delivery
Our records that pertain to material order and fabrication as of 31st July 2017 (refer to Attachment 5)
indicate that you have cumulatively released 75,208.01m2 for fabrication out of the total glass scope
of 108,000 m2
, and out of that, you have dispatched a mere 44,797.48 m2
•
These figures show that you have redirected some scope from your fabricator "Golden Glass" and
given it to others to fabricate, and despite this we still record that between the 31st July 2017 and 30th

May 2017 (the date of the previous notice), you have only managed to fabricate and dispatch to site
6,470 m2 - or less than 6%- only over 60 days.
C. AGC's Failure to Plan the works and report Status
Our records indicate that you continue to fail to provide us with systematic and coherent updates on
your approved program which run contrary to clause 12.27 of the Subcontract conditions (Progress
Reports); in addition you are still failing to provide proper weekly progress reports.
The lack of proper progress reporting prevents us from establishing your own status as reflected by
your program; it also prevents any tangible assessment of delays and consequently affects the
mitigation timing and quantum. In addition, the applicable claims method for Time Impact Analysis
(Ref. Contract Clause 27 .2) is dependent in its mechanics on the provision of monthly updates of the
program.
Accordingly, we notify you that we reserve our rights to block all preliminaries payments related to
planning and progress monitoring from your progress payments until your deliver on these items as
you expected to, (i.e. planning and progress reporting)
D. On Site Construction and Installation Delays
Your onsite installation figures as of 02"d Aug 2017 are as follows;
Given the noticed delays in Engineering submittals, mock-ups, material fabrication, material delivery,
your construction figures is ought to reflect the same level of poor performance and delays. In figure
terms, the above figures depict is that you have managed to install only 6,598 m2 of glass (6.1%) in 62
days, given that you are yet to complete the remaining 76,8142 m2
, therefore its evident that at rate
of this progress you will surpass the project completion date which is clearly not acceptable .
Your deployment of mitigation measures such as those suggested and listed in the first page of this
notice is imperative to recover from the above-mentioned status and achieve compliance with your
contractual obligations.
E. Failure to substantiate entitlement for claims made for time and money compensation.

Your Submission reference CONQS/DP/RJ/15/0360 dated 141
h of July 2015 remains without any
substantiation entitlement to the claimed time and money despite our requests made through the
referenced notices.
Equally your claim CONQS/AH/OAR/16/0521 was sent without any digital files (later sent by 281
h July
2016 via your transmittal no. 0557) but remains without any substantiation exactly like your previous
claim (ref# 0360).
We have met with your planning and claim team in late Feb 2017 and explained that the lack of
substantiation, cross referencing or any form of evidence to the alleged events is stopping us from
assessing any of them, and overall we cannot commence evaluating the claimed periods and
ultimately. Subsequently no determination from our part on time and costs is possible until such time
where you provide substantiation evidence to these claims. Unfortunately we record that you have
not submitted any substantiation requirements to date.
We reiterate again that the absence of supporting particulars and substantiation evidence, is contrary to
the contract clauses requirement 10.3.3(c), 27.1.3, 27.1.4 and other relevant clauses, and ultimately
prevents the successful assessment of the claim as it will be deemed incomplete and unjustifiable.
Conclusion
Based on the above we are issuing you this notice pursuant to Subcontract clauses 12.11, 16.6, 22.1 for
the above referenced delays.
We reiterate that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor and/or
other
Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer arising as a result of the above shall be recovered
from you in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, and 16.6.1 in addition to other relevant
contract clauses.
Unfortunately, you have elected not to respond in a timely manner to our previous notices; and
moreover and much to our disappointment- your late responses attempted to pass the blame to others
but your selves, which obviously serves no tangible outcome towards recovering from these delays, you
apparently have yet to take necessary actions in this regard

Whilst we responded to you in a detailed fashion, we kept notifying you and issuing you with these
'Notice to
Correct' in order to allow you to rectify your failures within a reasonable time, sadly the delays
expanded to a state were the Employer took notice and is sending TCAJV an array of notices depicting
you're your own
delays and calling upon immediate and swift action towards recovery of delays.
As such, we urge you to treat this notice in a diligent manner and cooperate with our efforts to deploy
the
required remedies as stated above in order to avoid unnecessary disputes, thus potential losses. We
also
remind you of Sub-Clause 16.5.3 (b) in respect to your 'express' responsibility to mitigate the delays. This
clause is clear regarding the consequence of 'failure to comply'. Therefore, we urge you to start taking
mitigation measures by working at the available work fronts and assigning adequate manpower to
recover
your own delays.
We trust you find the above self-explanatory and we look forward to your continued action and support
on
this project.
Yours faithfully
, Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter dated 14 December 2014 ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-02840 including Variation
Order No. 31 for the omission of liquified Petroleum Gas {LPG) included in BoQ items 4/P/5 items I, J, K
&L.
Taking the above into consideration we would like to highlight the following:
1.) Wording in Time Cost Record
We do not accept the wording of the Time&Cost Record. Please refer to our letter
MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/001915 dated 15 July 2014. Kindly revise wording.
2.) Confirmation that items are omitted in its entire scope
All elements included in Defined Provisional Sums are part of our scope and hence th~

Engineer/Employer may not omit it simply in order to instruct a different Contractor to'
undertake the same package. We request your confirmation that you have fully omitted the LPG
system and that it has not been contracted to Others.
In case you wish to instruct Others with the scope for the LPG system we suggest ·that
compensation of the identified 7% Overheads and Profits identified in t~e Contract, in this case
56,000 AED, be made to us.
3.) Functionality responsibility
It is the Employers responsibility to ensure functionality of the Project is still provided despite
the omission of the DPS scope of LPG works. We shall have no liability in this respect.
We await your confirmation of the above and re-issuance of the Variation Order in accordance
therewith.
Dear Sir,
(1) RFV0-0401-1569 dated 09 July 2017
(2) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-07423 dated 17 May 2017- Variation Order no 172Omission of Defined Provisional Sums Items 4/P/1/1, J, K & L- Hotel Fit-out
We write in relation to RFVO {1) related to recovery of overhead & profit and attendances due to the
omission of Defined Provisional Sums Items 4/P/1/1, J, K & L- Hotel Fit-out.
In the Request for Variation Order, the Contractor claims that "on the basis that the omitted Hotel Fitout
will be required within the project, TCAJV presume that the Employer intends to award the supply
and installation of the fit-out with another contractor and that the omission entitles TCAJV to recover
overheads and profit for works that are omitted and subsequently carried out by others".
TCAJV are seeking recovery of Overheads and Profit amounting to AED7,000,000 (Defined Provisional
Sums Item 4/P/1/J).
The reasons given by TCAJV regarding entitlement are without basis and are rejected. There is no basis
within the General Conditions of Contract for compensating TCAJV on presumptions that they may

make regarding the Employer's intent.
The definition of Defined Provisional Sums in the General Conditions {Clause 1.1) states;
"Defined Provisional Sum means a sum included in the Contract Price and so designated in Schedule 6
(Bills of Quantities) for the execution of any part of the Works or for the supply of Goods or services, or
for contingencies, which sum may be used, in whole or in part, or not at all, on the instructions of the
Engineer and the Contractor is deemed to have made due allowance for programming, planning and
pricing preliminaries in the Contract Price."
The Conditions of Contract are very explicit with regards to Variations of Provisional Sums and Defined
Provisional Sums (Clause 20.4.1 states);
"Each Provisional Sum or Defined Provisional Sum shall only be used, in whole or in part, accordance
with the Engineer's instructions."
The definition of Variation in the General Conditions (Clause 1.1) includes;
" .... a) the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof."
With regards Pricing of Overheads & Profit, Schedule 6 - Bills of Quantities (of the Conditions of
Contract)- Preamble 12 states;
"The rates inserted in the Bill of Quantities will be used to value any Variations to the Works, whether
omissions or additions. The Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the
value of any omitted Works"
Based on the above, TCAJV's assessment of a variation in this instance is without entitlement basis,
unrealistic, prohibitively exorbitant and demonstrates unreasonableness of TCAJV's pricing of the
variation. TCAJV are requested to review their RFVOs and ensure that there's entitlement in
accordance with contract before submission.
TCAJV's submission, RFV0/0401/1569 is rejected and a Variation Order in the amount requested will
not be issued.
Yours faithfully,

Dear Sir,
{1) MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/ 011569 dated 24 September 2017
(2) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08073 dated 24August 2017
(3) RFV0-0401-1569 dated 09 July 2017
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) in relation to RFVO (3) re lated to recovery
of overhead and profit and attendances due to the omission of Defined Provisional Sum for t he Hotel
Fit Out.
The Contractor's request for a Variation Order has been rejected and detailed reasons based upon the
Contract Clauses have been provided via correspondence (2). The Contractor's interpretation of the
"true meaning" of the Contract is rejected and the Engineer reiterates its position.
The Engineer is not required to "determine" the issue as the Contractor has not submitted a Claim
pursuant to Clause 27.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
Yours f aithfully,
Dear Sir,
(1} MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011852 dated OS November 2017
(2) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08073 dated 22 October 2017
We write with reference to correspondence (1} regarding the recovery of Overhead, Profit and
Attendance due to the Omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for Hotel Fit Out.
The Engineer reiterates its contractual position conveyed to the Contractor vide correspondence (2).
Furthermore the Contractor is referred to Clause 9.5 (Schedule 1, Contract Particula rs) wherein is
provided that the Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the federa l laws of the United Arab Emirates.
We note the Contractor's request for a meeting to discuss "the dispute" and we record that the
Contractor has not submitted a Claim in accordance with the Contract regarding this matter and also, in
the last paragraph of correspondence (1), the Contractor erroneously refers to letter (ref.

MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/011503) which is not related to the Omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for
the
Hotel Fit Out.
In light of the above, the Engineer believes the requirements of the Contract are explicit.
Please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00310 which is self-explanatory.
Pursuant to our letters referenced from (3) to (9) above, you are hereby instructed, pursuant to Clause
11.3 to stop with immediate effect, the works that has been omitted from your scope of works in
accordance with Clause 22.2.4 & 20 of the Conditions of Subcontract as detailed in the attached Cl.
Please note that these omitted works has been taken over by the JV and we will be advising you of
further
details in due course.
This is for your strict compliance and should you have queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours Faithfully,
Dear Si r,
Mr. Uonel Clermont- Chief Executive Officer
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
SC/075 - PCA Sub-Freezing Works
1) TCAJV letter ref: MTB/TCA/GL/L/000115 dated 15 October 2017
2) TCAJV letter ref: MTB/TCA/GL/L/000106 dated 26 August 2017
3) TCAJV letter ref: MTB/TCA/GL/L/000086 dated 25 May 2017
Omission of a Section(s) of the Subcontract Works by way of Variation, pursuant to
Sub-Clauses 22.2.4 of the Conditions of Subcontract
We refer to our letter reference: (1) above, whereby we have notified you about our intention to omit
the
supply and installation part of the remaining Scope of Subcontract Works, by way of Variation, in lieu of

terminating the Subcontract due to you failure to comply with our Notice to Correct reference: (2)
above, and
instruct another subcontractor to carry out the omitted works, in accordance with Sub-Clause 22.2.4 of
the
Conditions of the Subcontract.
In this regard, we write to notify you that, we shall initially omit the sections of Subcontract Works,
identified
in the enclosed Schedules 1, and instruct another subcontractor to carry out these omitted works. This
initial
omission shall be without prejudice to our entitlement, to omit further sections of the Subcontract
Works,
established by our notifications references: (1) and (2) above.
Furthermore, we notify you, pursuant to Sub-Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims) that, we shall recover
form you
all associated costs, losses, expenses and damages that may be incurred by us due to this omission.
Once the
work has been completed and we have assessed the all associated costs, losses, expenses and damages,
we
will issue a Variation Order for this omitted works.
The provisions of Sub-Clauses 22.3 (Consequences of Termination for Subcontractor Default) to 22.5
(Payment
after Termination for Subcontractor Default) of the Conditions of Subcontract shall apply to the omitted
section, as if the Subcontract had been terminated in respect of such section. As such, you are required
to
comply with them.
We trust you find the above self-explanatory and we look forward to your continued action and support
on
this project.
Yours faithfully,
Dear sir

You are kindly advised that the decorative lighting trays in the above mentioned location has been
descoped
from your scope of works with immediate effect.
This decision has been made by Management as ways of mitigating the huge delays caused by AI Ghurair
in this regard and also achieve the specific milestone required on the project.
Therefore you are instructed not to proceed with any works pertaining to the aforesaid location. We will
be advising you of the de-scoped scope value in due course.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
It has been noted that no action appears to have been taken to date regarding the use of Refrigerants
containing zero ozone depleting potential despite the issuance of an Engineers Instruction No. 9 (Ref.
MTCCMATCA-0401-L TR-00163) dated 30 December, 2012. The compliance to the aforementioned Instruction
is still not being fulfilled. CMA still observed newly purchased air-conditioning units stocked at TCA JV
Store
yard and there were several units which had been installed and operated in various facilities.
Dear Sir:
we refer to your letter ref. MTBfTCAIAECOMfU000401 dated 14 April2013 In respect of the above.
We would remind you that the contents of your letter should form part of the fully detailed claim
pursuant to
Sub-Clause 27.1.5 which shall include full supporting particulars. These details were due within forty two
(42)
days after the Contractor became aware (or should have been aware) of the event or circumstance
giving rise
to the claim. In consideration that the actual date of the event or circumstance has not been fully
identified, but
by applying the date of your notification of 10 February 2013, the fully detailed claim was due to be
submitted

before 24 March 2013, however at the date of this letter, 24 April2013, your claim remains
unsubstantiated.
We would remind you that you have also failed to comply with Sub·Ciauses 27.1.3, 27.1.4, 27.1.5(b) and
27.1.6.
In consideration of your non-compliance with the requirements of the Contract and, for the reasons
stated in
our letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-00320 dated 18 March 2013, we again advise that your Claim
No.
C/Cost/0005 is hereby rejected.
Dear Sir,
Alan Stevens. Construction Manager
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
Engineer's Letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-00320 dated 18 Mar. 2013
Contractor's letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/000267 dated 10 Feb. 2013
Contractor's letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/000328 dated 07 Mar. 2013
Engineer's Review of RFV0/0401/0013 dated 3 Feb. 2013
Engineer's MOM ref. MTC-CMA-0401-EN-MOM-00013 dated 03 Dec. 2012
Response to Engineer's letter regarding Air-conditioning Units Containing
Refrigerant R-22 Claim No. C/Cost/0005
We refer to the above and we again reiterate that the Engineer's Instruction no. 9 constitutes a
Variation with respect to Temporary Works. We have provided the Engineer with abundant evidence
regarding the contractual requirements for ozone depleting refrigerants and fire suppression systems.
We hereby respond as follows (In the same order of the Engineer's comments):
o Reference to ADAC Program HSE Plan, Section 8.2, in particular paragraph 8.2.16. We maintain
that the requirements do not prohibit the use of ozone depleting refrigerants, and we reaffirm our
position in respect of such requirements as set out in our letter dated 07 March 2013.

The Engineer's letter dated 18 March 2013 stated that the ADAC Program HSE Plan "clearly
indicates_ that all equipment identified as containing ozone depleting substances shall be removed
from site".
In fact paragraph 8.2.16 refers to the disposal of ODS when found in existing equipment This
refers to the disposal of such gases upon decommissioning of such equipment at the end of its
life. Kindly refer to PART TWO: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS of the Program HSE Plan, Section 35
which clearly sets out the procedures for fitting units containing ODS and the reference to the
disposal upon the decommissioning of such equipment. This is the logical and correct
interpretation of the Specification which requires the Contractor to safely decommission and
remove ODS from units installed in temporary buildings at the end of their lifecycle (as per the
HSE Plan).
o Reference to Paragraph 4.B of Section 013543i and the Engineer's statement:
" .... The Estidama Principles ..... are more stringent than Section 8.2.16 of the ADAC Programme
HSE Plan, and therefore are to be implemented". We refer the Engineer to our prior correspondences on
this matter whereby we have provided
clear and unequivocal evidence that "Estidama Principles" do not apply to temporary facilities
(refer to Estidama Information Bulletin No. 3).
As further evidence, kindly refer to the enclosed copy of e-mail dated 1 April 2013 provided by the
Urban Planning Council- Estidama as an interpretation of the scope and applicability of Estidama
Informational Bulletin no. 3. As indicated the enclosed copy of the UPC confirmation "The RE-R3
requirements of the PBRS are to be applied on buildings required to comply with the Pearl Rating
System." The definition of buildings requiring compliance with the Pearl Building Rating System is
provided in Estidama Informational Bulletin no. 3. Hence the Engineer's statement that the
uEstidam·a Principles are defined as the mandatory credits in tile Pearl Building Systemj RE-R3 is
one of these credits_.." {ref. Engineer's Review of RFV0/0401/0013 dated 3 February 2013} is out
of context with respect to temporary facilities and is therefore not valid.

Had the Employer intended to impose a higher or different standard than that required by
Estidama, then such a requirement should have been set out in the Specification in the same
manner certain other requirements have been established within the particulars of Specification
Section 013543 (i.e. low-water use fixtures for "plumbing fixtures installed as port of temporary
construction", which are similarly not applicable to Temporary Works pursuant to the Estidama
principles).
<> Reference to Clause 12.24 of the Conditions of Contract, the Engineer again refers to "Local
Estidama Principles" as stated in Clause 4.B of Section 013543 and states that "Potentially
Hazardous Materials shall not exceed the values indicated in Schedule 12".
The Engineer should be aware that all refrigerants, including those which do not contain ODS are
also hazardous. Each type has its safe handlinCJ control measures and procedures and is regulated
by Applicable Law. In the Environmental Meeting No. 13 dated 03 December 2012, "SM replied
that JV can use R407c as an alternative to R-22". We note that R407c is also hazardous. Kindly
refer to enclosed safety data sheets (included as part of the enclosed WSP report).
Notwithstanding the Engineer's argument with respect to Potentially Hazardous Materials (Clause
12.24) and Deleterious Materials {Clause 12.31} and the reference to United Nations and World
Health Organization documents, we remind the Engineer that the Contract is governed by UAE law
and such Applicable Laws as established in the Conditions of Contract regulate and allow the use
of R-22. As a result, we maintain that the Engineer's allegation regarding ODS use " ... is a nonconformity
and therefore not acceptable" as not valid.
To validate our understanding of the Contract, the obligations flowing therefrom, as well as the
validity of the Engineer's NCR and correspondence on the matter, we appointed an expert (Tyron
Lawson, Technical Director, WSP Environment and Energy) to provide an independent review and
advice with respect to the use of R-22 in the context of the Contract and the Applicable Laws. We
refer the Engineer to the enclosed WSP report dated 1 April2013.

On the basis of the above we hereby notify you that the Engineer's NCR, instructions and rejection of
the Contractor's claim are contrary to the letter, intent and spirit of the Contract. Kindly be advised
that we are ready to replace any such required equipment; provided such requirements are instructed
by a properly issued Variation and confirmed by Variation Order in accordance with the appropriate
provisions of the Contract. We kindly request a conference with ADAC to discuss this matter to avoid
unwarranted escalation of
this issue. Please be guided accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Mr. Alan Stevens, Construction Manager
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building - General Contractor
TCA JV letter MTB/TCA/ AECOM/ L/000309 dated 27 February 2013
TCA JV letter MTB/TCA/ AECOM/ L/000201 dated 07 January 2013
Sub-Clauses 9.10.3
Notice of likely Delay and I or Disruption to the Works
Confirmation of Stakeholder Roles
We give notice that the above requested information and action will delay the progress of the Works,
and
potentially increase the Contract Price.
For the attached list of MSI systems, the Engineer is required to provide the information as required in
Specification 013105 and as requested in our letter referenced above (a copy is attached for your
reference).
According to our Programme, the stakeholder meetings should have started on February 16th 2013 by
commencing with the requirement capture sessions, which is followed with the development of the
CONOPS (Concept of Operation) documentation, followed by the updated design definitions which are

required in time for the award of above referenced and systems (see attached) and any related Defined
Provisions Sum items systems.
A lack of action is a cause for delay due to an act of prevention which entitles the Contractor to an
extension of Time. We urge the Engineer to take immediate action to advance and resolve this critical
Employer risk issue and avoid a potential cause for suspension. We are happy to consider and explore
possible ways to mitigate delays. In order to avoid numerous meetings with multiple Stakeholders and
mitigate the delays, we suggest limiting the number of Stakeholder at the beginning, the strategy
regarding the requirement capture sessions could be defined during a Kick-off meeting scheduled at
your
convenience.
Dear Sir,
With reference to 1) above regarding the Engineer's text instruction to omit light cover at the Public
Gallery ceiling as set out a Variation previously instructed in Bulletin no. 7 reference 3) in respect of the
light cove at the Public Gallery cei ling as set out revised Drawings. As such, our RFVO ref. 2) above may
be
considered withdrawn.
However, we urge the Engineer to apply consistent protocols in defining and instructing Variations
particularly in instances of reversa1 of previously issued Variations for implementation with immediate
effect. We further remind the Engineer that he is also required to update t he IFC documents in a
consistent manner in order to avoid Construction errors and omissions inadvertently introduces as in
the
case of Engineer's Instruction no. 62 in ref (1) above.
In accordance with Clause 9.10.3 of the Conditions of Contract, we hereby give the Engineer notice of
likely abortive works, disruption and delay to the progress of the Works and potentially increase the
Contract Price due errors arising from failure to resolve discrepant IFC Drawings.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,

.....
We acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding the above issue and would like to respond as
follows.
Please be informed the above partial power cut occurred Central Process area in level LB2 on 191h
January 2014 was due to unforeseen circumstances associated with technical problem. Hence,
we were unable to issue advances notice.
The power cut occurred at 12.15 pm and we were trying our very best and subsequently we
manage to resolve on 3.00 pm. Hence power supply was unvovoilble for about 1 hour and 45
minutes only without considering lunch hour. It is understood that the said power cut was a
general unexpected technical problem and such minor issue is not significant nor related to EOT
claim.
For future reference, we will try our best to provide advance notice for your information and
prepare on alternative solution such as temporary power supply in order to ovoid unnecessary
inconvenience to your work. Meanwhile, please coordinate with our Site Supervisors as below from
time to time for immediate assistance should you hove queries with regards to the power supply
issue.
Site Supervisors in charge for power supply:
• Mr. Abdul Rohman. Mobile no: 056-3190957
• Mr. Bosem. Mobile no: 056-6898093
Yours faithfully,
Dear sir
We are in receipt of the Engineer responses to the above referenced Submittal wherein 73 nos .. of Shop
Drawings were returned with either Action Code-3 or Code-4by reason of future IFC changes.
There are also another 58 nos. of Shop Drawings currently under review by the Engineer that we
understand are likely to be similarly returned with Engineer's action Code 3 or Code 4 by reasons of

similar design changes to the new structured cabling design of the Government network and Satellite
Communication Rooms (SCR).
We have previously written to the Engineer with regards to delays and disruption caused by the
uncertainty with regards to such contemplated IFC reissuances. Refer to (12) and (13).
Please note that the Engineer's action code 3 will cause delays and abortive works and we deem such
actions by the Engineer as inappropriate in consideration that they are not discharged as a result of
issues
with the form or content of our Submitta~but rather to stop the Works due to pending Variations.
The Engineer is well advised to stay true to the authorities granted under the Contract whereby the
Engineer may legitimately stop such Works by issuing an appropriate Suspension Notice. Recognizing
that the Contractor is not in apposition to anticipate the pending changes and revise the above
reference
Shop Drawings, we deem such action codes as Suspension Notices justifying additional Costs and
extension of Time for Completion pursuant to the Conditions of Contract clause 16.9.
We are unable to progress further with-out the revised IFCs and urgently request the Engineer to
provide
the date on which such Bulletins will be issued by the Engineer.
We give notice pursuant to Conditions of Contract Clause 9.10.3 that the above requested action if not
provided immediately, will delay and/or disrupt the progress of the Works, and potentially increase the
Contract Price.
This is for your kind information and consideration.
Yours faithfully
Dear Sir,
We hereby give notice that the Engineer's late response (71 days as of today) to the MAR, referenced 1}
above, pertaining to the Sample of Glass Type Typical for Pier (Technical Submittal), will most likely
delay
and I or disrupt the progress of the Works, and potentially increase the Contract Price.

The Engineer is required to immediately reply to the MAR Ref. MS/0401/A/0120; Rev. 0, referenced 1}
above, to avoid any delay and/or disruption to the Works.
The Engineer's late reply is directly affecting the progress of the Facade and related Works causing delay
and/or disruption to the work sequences I activities in relation to Engineering and Procurement.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with the Conditions of Contract Clause 9.10.3, you are
notified
that your late reply to the MAR pertaining to the Sample of Glass Type Typical for Pier (Technical
Submittal) will most likely delay and/ or disruption to the progress of the Works and result in additional
Costs.
·~ .
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We refer to Delay Notice No. 86 dated 26 March 2014 {ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/ L/001693) associated
with the
delays to the MV Cable Installations, which the Engineer acknowledged on 22 April 2014, via letter ref:
MTCCMATCA-0401-LTR-01415, assigning it reference 'C/Time/0086' and 'C/Cost/0086'.
Pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.3, we write to advise the Engineer of further delays
and
disruption being caused to the MV Cable Installations attributable to the various acts or omissions of
"others", which we maintain are causes that are the Employer's responsibility.
With reference to the above noted correspondence, we draw your attention to t he following :
a) Delays in completion of Other Contractor's works;
b) Defective works of Other Contractor's;
c) Insufficient extent of Other Contractor's works.
ABUAs a result we are unable to resume the Works in a reasonable fashion until the issues associated
with the

failure of the Other Contractor to complete MV duct-bank and ancillary works in qualitatively
satisfactory
manner and to the extent in order to allow us to resume and progress without further stoppages,
disruptions due to failure to inspect and accept works in advance of instructing us to undertake the
cable
pulling Works.
Failure to complete duct bank works will further impact the MV cable completion and is likely to impact
the
Time for Completion of Contract Milestones no. 6, 7 and 8.
You are hereby advised that we have relied on the Engineer's instruction to proceed with our Works.
However, for the reason's provided above, the MV cable pulling activities on the North side of the MTB
have
been effectively suspended as of 17 July 2014 due to lack available work fronts. A copy of ANEL letter
reference MTB-AN EL-TCA-L-0806 dated 16 July 2014 is attached for your reference.
Kindly address the above in order to allow us to re-commence the MV Cable Works, without further
disruptions and stoppages by redressing the necessary compliance by the Other Contractor in order to
minimize the on-going critical delays.
We look forward to the Engineer's prov1s1on of a responsible Right of Access based on documented
acceptance of completed works by Other Contractors.
Meanwhile, we are continuing to review the foregoing and the history of events generally associated
with
the delays to MV Cable Installations, in order to assess the full extent of delay and the impact that such
delay
has, and is continuing to have on the Works; the outcome of which will be submitted to the Engineer in
due
course, pursuant to the requirement of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5.
Given the direct correlation between the content and attachments to this letter and the content of
Delay

Notice No. 86 dated 26 March 2014 (letter ref: 001693}, then the detailed particulars associated with
the
delay to the Works caused by the foregoing, will be addressed within Claim C/Time/0086.
Yours faithfully
Dear Sir,
We write to you to express our deep concerns on the lack of progress in completing the infrastructure
works that include the sewer system, storm water system and duct banks.
To clarify further, the sewer system at Pier-2 has not been completed to date. In particular we would
note that outstanding manholes have not been delivered, those that have been delivered are not
connected to their respective upstream/downstream pipelines. Furthermore there have been no
backdrops constructed and no waterproofing membrane has been applied to these areas either. (Photos
are enclosed).
This lack of progress has resulted in trenches being open for a long t ime, causing disruption to the
successive works of other trades related to MTB Building. A similar case exists for Piers 3 and 4.
In addition to the above, the storm water system has not been completed at any of the Piers. Piers 2 and
3 have short installed sections, but without full connectivity to the associated manholes these will
continue to further slow other interfacing future MTB works.
Also the progress of the IT and Power duct banks has been hampered by the lack of progress on the
construction of the associated pull pits. To date, many power duct banks pu ll pits remain uncompleted
due to unavailability of required accessories, which has been cited by your team as procurem ent issues.
This de lay has an impact on stringing required power and IT cables through these ducts and has been
ra ised as a concern by your own MEP team.
It is also worth to mention that to date no infrastructure works have commenced on Pier-1. Concluding
the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the construction of
the external works and coordinate with other MTB contractors to avoid further progress disruption
issues and illustrate a clear path for the completion of the infrastructure works inclusive of the asphalt

for the GSE road. The programme should include installation of piping/ ducting systems along with their
associated manholes/pull pits.

Dear Sir,
We wish to record our concerns at PCEJV's ongoing delays in providing approved material to achieve
timely completion of the mechanical works, with specific concern to the secondary steel pipe
supports work for main chilled water piping installations in Level 0.1 of Piers.
Despite of several reminders and our letter MTB/TCA/PCEJV /L/000279 dated 25 March 2014, PCEJV
has failed to expedite the approval, delivery and installation of grout material normally grouting of
baseplate should be done. "Prior to loading steel support" as mentioned by lntercool in the attached
e-mail correspondence dated 9 July 2014. Therefore, PCEJV is again requested to confirm target date
of completion of each activity so that TCAJV can monitor progress.
You are hereby instructed to proceed with all the necessary action immediately to mitigate further
delay. Failing such, we shall have no alternative but to back charge any delay and disruption cost
related to your contract work and other trades affected according to Subcontract Clause 1&.6.1. We
are keeping the contemporary records and we shall write to you again when this information is
available.
We look forward for your urgent response and action.
Yours faithfully,
We refer to our above referenced letter in respect of continued delays to the manufacturing & delivery
of Air Handling Units.
We remain extremely concerned over the lack of commitment that you have shown towards the latest
manufacturing delay of the Central Processor 43 no. LBl Air Handling Units within the the 3'd 200 Days
Look-ahead Schedule and Baseline Programme. We wish to record yet again that the manufacturing &
delivery situation has deteriorated with no units on site as on this date.

It is again clear that the repeated failure by the vendor 'JCI' to comply with earlier assurances to fulfill
the scheduled dates is adversely affecting the Works, which are now in further delay. (having been
deferred from an end date of 25 May to 31 August, 2014).
We would remind you of the absolute importance of the Air Handling Units to the Project and the
'critical path' of same, yet despite this and earlier problems & regular reminders, you have been unable
to provide any assurances
Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- MTB Project
1. Letter of Award (LOA) for Design, Fabrication, Supply and
Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Work Package
dated 23 October 2013
2. Minutes of Rosano Progress Meeting No.18 held on 31 August2014
3. TCAJV email dated 01 September 2014 (by Mr. Abhulimhen Peter)
4. Workshop held on 11 September 2014
Notice of Delay and Lack of Coordination by Rasana Sd/~
~
cf<;z ... ~~74We write with reference to the Letter of Award signed for the Design, Fabrication, Supply
and Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Subcontract Works Package
dated 23 October 2013 and further to Item no.7 of the Minutes of RASANA Progress
Meeting No.18 dated 31 August 2014 which states, inter alia, that "No elevator Shaft
frame in the Piers is complete. RASANA has completed survey works for all lifting beams
on site. ( ... ) RASANA is to coordinate with TCAJV and OTIS site team ... "and the agreed
"sequence of the handover of Elevator Shaft Works", and TCAJV email dated 01
September 2014 which states " ... Currently no shaft frame is complete at site (RASANA

are stepping up efforts to close out the NCR and complete one shaft- EL V 03-22 by next
week)" and the workshop held with you on 11 September 2014 regarding the delays in
your Works and lack of coordination with other trade/s (all referred to above) and the
enclosed "RASANA's MTB PROJECT- ELEVATOR SHAFTS PROGRAM dated 04 September
2014" (enclosed) which shows delays in your Works.
Under Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] your
obligations include:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the
Subcontractor agrees that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently with
the Subcontract Works.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the
coordination of the work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the
Subcontract Works including timeframes, programmes and schedules for completion of
the Subcontract Works;( ... )
(c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other Contractor or
Other Subcontractor ( ... ) . ".
Accordingly, you are hereby requested to coordinate your Works including the design
with Other Subcontractors (including but not limited to Otis) and coordinate the shop
drawings with the Engineer.
Subcontract 12.12.3 further provides that:
"12. 12.3 The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays,
disruptions and costs it may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be
performed by Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with

its obligations pursuant to this clause 12. 12 including but not limited to those interfaces set
out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) ( ... ).The Subcontractor
agrees that it shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply with its obligations
pursuant to this clause 12. 12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for
submission of the tender.
12. 12.4 The Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer,
Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors (or any other contractor, Sub-subcontractor
or supplier) for costs, monies, loss, expense, damage or otherwise, arising out of or in
connection with a breach of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the
Subcontract.".
Furthermore, it is noted that under Subcontract Clause 16.6.1 if you fail to comply with the
approved Subcontract Programme you shall indemnify and hold us harmless against all
damages, costs, losses and expenses incurred by us in connection with your delays.
Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to
comply with clause 16.2 (Subcontract Time for Completion), the Subcontractor shall,
subject to clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims), pay delay damages to the Contractor for
this default.".
Finally, you are hereby instructed to submit site progress reports on a weekly basis which
shall be made available at every weekly meeting. You are also instructed under
Subcontract Clause 16.4.1 to submit us your revised recovery plan and supporting report
describing the revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite your
progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion ..

The above is for your immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above subject and further to our numerous correspondences
including, but not limited to, our letters referred to above whereby we expressed our concerns
regarding your poor performance and progress, lack of coordination and planning, lack of
manpower and machinery, non-conformance of the Works, lack of supervision and management,
and on-going delays in Engineering Works , including design, Mockups, Material and Shop
Drawing Submittals, BIM deliverabies, planning and coordination, deliveries to the Site, failure to
raise RFI's and respond to the Engineering Bulletins timely which included changes having time
and/or cost impacts and therefore jeopardizing our recovery of the same.
Moreover, due to your failure in achieving your planned dates you kept modifying and shifting
your commitments which you failed to achieve again leading to many unresolved, pending issues
resuiting in an alarming delay in the Project Completion Date.
Any costs , losses and/or expenses incurred by TCAJV and/or other Subcontractors in connection
with your delays to the Works and your failure to fulfill your obligations under the Subcontract
shall be recovered in accordance with the Subcontract's Terms and Conditions.
Furthermore, we have previously requested you to increase your manpower to maintain the
required Works progress on Site and mitigate your delays in accordance with Subcontract Clause
8.1.2. By way of examples, our letter dated 28 August 2014 (ref:MTBfTCAlCHADWICKlU000114)
regarding your delays in Pier 1, 2, 3 and 4 roofing works stated that the reasons for your slow
progress included lack of manpower which you had previously been instructed to increase but
failed to do and lack of machinery. Our letter dated 28 September 2014 (ref:
MTBfTCA/CHADWICKlU000141) regarding your delay in the commencement of the roof
installation to Pier 1 and 4 and Gatehouses, slow progress of roofing activities on Pier 1, 2 and 3,
failure to commence Pier 4 and lack of manpower for the roofing works requested you to address

all above issues immediately. However, to date you have failed to provide any additional
workforce on Site.
Subcontract Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] sets out your obligations, inter alia, as:
"8.1.2 The Subcontractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that it completes the Subcontract
Works, and each and every part of the Subcontract Works, in such manner and in such time so as to
allow the Contractor to comply with any obligations under the Contract and meet any deadlines in
relation to the Project which are notified to the Subcontractor from time to time. The Subcontractor
shall neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of the Contractor or other subcontractors. The
Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works as the Contractor
may reasonably instruct. The Subcontractor shall conform to the Contractor's hours of work. The
Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources, accelerate its performance,
work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as necessary to maintain
progress o.f the Subcontract Works. ",
Accordingly, despite you are obliged to (and our previous advice in this regard) increase your
work force and other resources necessary to maintain your progress of the Subcontract Works, to
date you have failed to do so.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3.3 and
16.4.1(b) to submit, within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter, a recovery program wlth
supporting report detailing how the above delay events will be mitigated including any increase in
your resources. Without prejudice to our other rights and entitlements that may arise under the
Subcontract, we hereby inform that your failure to do so shall result in us supplying the necessary
additional manpower to you, at your cost, which shall be back-charged to your account.
Your immediate action in this matter is anticipated.
Yours truIy,
Dear Sir,
We acknowledged receipt of your letter pertaining to your accusations of our failure to coordinate with
civil works
during energization with local authorities and would respond as follows to the comments raised within.
To begin with, please be informed that clearance for civil department is given by your responsible
project engineer and

civil works started with the afore said permissions given by your selves. We therefore advise you that
before accusing
the main contractor with the lack of coordination between other parties, you must coordinate within
your organization
structure since it is abundantly clear that you deficiencies in your communication if you are wri'ting such
kind of letters
and accusing us without knowing the facts of the real site status.
Furthermore, regardless the fact that local authorities comes to inspect the substations as a group,
CM1A (room 90)
and CM1B (Room 97) in this case, room 97 was accessible all the time since civil works were impacting
only room 90 as
it can be seen in even in your letter reference MTB/ANEL/TCA/L/3205 dated OS May 2016.
As a result of the afore said and for the records, it has come to light that you were not able to
coordinate internally and
delibaretly choose to accuse main contractor with erroneous facts to cover up or making excuses for
your lack of
coordination and delays for the works completion in the concerned area.
We believe we made our position clear for your false ·accusions and shall this attitude of Anel
continues,will not be
tolerated and we have no exercise to use our right to remove the responsible accuser who delibaretly
relays misleading
information with the official letters from the-project as per the strict acGordance of conditions of
contract 14.9.3.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Klaus Toftgaard Spens- Managing Director
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
SC/013- Baggage Handling System

Request for Variation Order (RFVO) 0401-CP-RFV0-0391
RE Subcontractor's Claim C-391 Access for MEP Works- Contractor's instruction
Cl/00293
We acknowledge receipt of the above referenced Request for Variation Order (RFVO) for providing
Access
for MEP Works.
Given that the event against which the claim is raised has occurred, you should be able to provide
substantiation of the actual costs incurred. Documents that should be available would include
timesheets
and invoices from your suppliers to support the hours claimed. Furthermore, we request you to provide
records of the Works undertaken. We highlight that pursuant to Conditions of the Subcontract
Agreement
clause 8.1.2 "The Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works
as
the Contractor may reasonably instruct. The Subcontractor shall conform to the Contractor's hours of
work. The Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources, accelerate its
performance, work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as necessary to
maintain progress of the Subcontract Works."
Upon receipt of the above information we shall undertake a detailed review of the claim and issue our
determination accordingly.

The delay notice is not in acoordance with clause 27.1.1 of the condition of contract as it was not
provided within the required 28 days drom the date the contractor became aware of the alleded delay.

In addition, the contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasobnale steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delays as required under clause 16.5.3.
Yours faithfully

