Dear Sir,

It has been brought to the Contractor's attention that the Employer and the Engineer's Assistant are of
the view that the costs of employing a Design Verification Engineer ("DVE") to review and verify
Provisional Sum works are deemed to be included within the initial Contract Price (defined as the
Contract Price as of the date of the Letter of Acceptance) and are not deemed to be covered within the
Provisional Sums included within the Accepted Contract Amount.

However, it is the Contractor's position that the aforementioned view of the Employer and the
Engineer's Assistant is incorrect. This is because the Contract does not state that the costs of employing
a Design Verification Engineer to review and verify Provisional Sum works are deemed to be included
within the Contractor 's initial Contract Price.

In an attempt to further the Employer's case, clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H of Volume 2 of the Contract has been
quoted to the Contractor . However, it is this clause which confirms that the Contractor's
aforementioned position on this matter is correct. Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H (first sentence) states that " The
Design Verification Engineer'sscope of work will apply to all defined works within the Accepted Contract
Amount, covering both the lump sum and the Provisional Sum portions of the Accepted Contract
Amounf' (emphasis added).

The "Accepted Contract Amount" is the summation of the Contract Price (as of the date of the Letter of
Acceptance) and the Provisional Sums. This is clear from (1) the definition of the "Contract Price" within
Sub- Clause 1.1.4.2 of the General Conditions of Contract which states that the " Contract Price as of the
date of Letter of Acceptance, means the Accepted Contract Amount less Provisional Sums..." and (2)
Sub-Clause
1.1.4.1 of the General Conditions of Contract which states that the "Accepted Contract Amount means
the amount stated in the Letter of Acceptance ..." Schedule B of the Letter of Acceptance states that the

Accepted Contract Amount of QAR 12,256,005,898 is equal to the summation of the Contract Price of
QAR 5,945,936,898 and the Provisional Sums amount of QAR 6,310,069,000. Accordingly , the quoted
extract from Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H of Volume 2 of the Contract confirms that the scope of verification by
the DVE within the Contract is the scope of defined works covered by the Accepted Contract Amount,
i.e. the scope of works contained within the initial Contract Price and the scope of works contained
within the Provisional Sums.

ALYSJ
joint venture

Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H (last sentence) further states that "...The Accepted Contract Amount includes the
DVE's full scope of work which includes checking and certifying the provisional sum elements of the
Works" (emphasis added). This sentence of clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H demonstrates that the Accepted Contract
Amount, not the Contract Price, includes for the cost of the DVE scope of works in connection with the
Provisional Sums as the Accepted Contract Amount includes the Provisional Sums scope of works.
Consequently, the cost of the DVE scope of works in connection with the Provisional Sums is deemed to
be included within the Provisional Sums and not within the Contract Price. If the Employer required the
Contractor to have included for the cost of the DVE scope of works in connection with the Provisional
Sums within the Contract Price and did not intend for such DVE costs to be deemed to be included
within the Provisional Sums then the aforementioned extract from Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H should have
included reference to "the Contract Price" in lieu of reference to "the Accepted Contract Amount. " In
other words, had clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H stated 'The Contract Price includes the DVE's full scope of work
which includes checking and certifying the provisional sum elements of the Works' the Contractor would
have been obligated to have included within the Contract Price for the cost of the DVE scope of works in
connection with the Provisional Sums.

The Employer and the Engineer's Assistant are aware that the Contractor 's current Subcontract with
Mott MacDonald Ltd for executing the DVE services excludes the DVE scope of works in connection with
the Provisional Sums. Now that Provisional Sums works are being undertaken the Contractor has to
appoint a DVE to undertake the DVE scope of works in connection with the works covered by the
Provisional Sums. As the costs of the DVE scope of works in connection with the Provisional Sums' scope
of works are included within the Provisional Sums and are not deemed to be included within the
Contract Price, the Contractor therefore requires the Engineer's Assistant's instruction by return under
Sub-Clause 13.7.1 of the General Conditions (Volume 3) of the Contract to instruct the expenditure of a
Provisional Sum, in part, for the appointment of a DVE to carry out the DVE scope of works in
connection with the Provisional Sums. This may include an instruction from the Engineer's Assistant to
proceed in accordance with the Provisional Sum procurement protocol contained within Appendix 6 of
the General Conditions of Contract.

The Contractor therefore looks forward to receipt of the Engineer's Assistant's instructions (together
with receipt of the Employer's specific written approval of such instruction required in accordance with
Sub-Clause 3.1.4(n) of the General Conditions of Contract) on this matter by urgent return.

Yours faithfully,
