Dear Sir,
The Engineer's Assistant makes reference to the Senior Management Quarterly Meeting held on 16 May
2 Further to ALYSJ's letter, referenced at item 1 and the inference that Contractor's obligated provision
for mock-ups is subject to the receiving of an Engineer's Instruction, the Engineer's Assistant responds as
follows:

1.
The requirements within Employers Requirements Volume 4 items 12.13.2 and Employer's
Requirements Volume 7, items 7.1.3 and 9.2 are within Contractor's Lump Sum scope obligations and
therefore no Engineer's Instruction is required.
2.
Contractor, has on several occasions been requested by the Engineer's Assistant to submit a
detailed and comprehensively acceptable strategy for the implementation of the scope requirements
regarding the provision of Mock-ups. ALYSJ's letter referenced at item 3 stated that a proposal will be

issued by 22 March 2015. The submission submitted on 05 May 2015 as a response has been reviewed
by the Engineer's Assistant and from the poor content within is completely unacceptable.
3.
As a consequence of 2 above, Contractor is required to submit a detailed Mock-up strategy
(plan) that clearly demonstrates Contractor's understanding of the scope obligations in accordance with
Volume 4 and Volume 7 as referenced previously. The strategy should include (but not be limited to)
time line activities aligned with Contractor's execution process for the display of various samples,
recommended locations of the mock-ups, potential sources for materials, sizing of mock-up samples,
overall management processes, and implementation co-ordination methodologies. This strategy is to be
submitted no later than Sunday 31 May 2015. This requirement is now critical.
4.
ALYSJ is to review the Engineer's Assistant letter referenced in item 4, including the attached
Underground Station Mock-up Scope issued by Qatar Rail and submit, as a separate requirement, a
comprehensive proposal for the implementation of this scope. As this proposal was originally requested
05 March 2015, Contractor is to submit same no later than Thursday, 4 June 2015.

The Engineer's Assistant looks forward to ALYSJ's continued focus and deliverable obligations on the
above.
Yours faithfully,
