Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0059
Delays to Completion of Guinault-Lebrun’s Works due to the Activities of the Employer’s
Other Contractor (L&T) to Gatehouses GH1, GH4, GH20 and GH40
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described herein
may cause delay [and/or disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same.
The Event(s):
On or around 13 March 2019, it became apparent that the activities and works of the Employer’s MTA
Contractor (‘L&T’) in and around Gatehouses GH1, GH4, GH20 and GH49, has affected, and by all
accounts continues to affect, the works being undertaken by our specialist subcontractor, Messrs.
Guinault-Lebrun (‘GL’) responsible for the Pre-Conditioned Air (‘PCA’) system for the MTB project.
There are two principle issues for which we request your assistance in resolving, which are: (1) delays to
handover by MTA and (2) delays resultant on damage being caused by L&T to the PQC works.
Delays to Handover:
We have been awaiting completion and handover of the following outstanding works for which L&T are
responsible. This is delaying completion of the PCA installations and testing and commissioning:
•
GH 20 Duct Bank to PCA Pit; and
•
GH 4 Duct Bank and Gantry.
Damage to PQC Works:

We also wish to bring to your attention that as clearly evidenced by the attached photos, damage has
been caused to GL’s pit cover and frames to Gatehouses GH1 and GH49, due to the MTA contractors’
excavation of the PQC around the pits. This will delay our commissioning works and will necessitate
return visits to repair as well as re-commissioning of pit mechanisms, following PQC completion.
Potential Impact:
As noted above, a combination of the delays being caused to handover due to outstanding works of L&T
to Gatehouses GH4 and GH49, and the delays consequent on damage being caused by L&T to the PQC
works in and around Gatehouses GH1 and GH49, will invariably delay the completion of GL’s PCA works
to these areas and similarly impact on completion of the resultant testing and commissioning.
The combined effect of the above is likely to delay GL’s completion beyond its 31 May 2019 deadline.
If this continues, this has the potential to impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described herein.
Yours faithfully,
