Subject:Store yard - Unsecured East Airfield Near ATCC
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of a notification from the Employer regarding the lack of security measures at the
store yard areas as per the subject matter. Please note that as per Clause 4.1.1 of Schedule 22 [4.1.1
Security of the Subcontractor Works (clause 12.14.3 (d))], you are solely responsible for the safety
obligations related to your Subcontract works. Furthermore, Clause 5.4 under Schedule 22 [Security of
the Site (clause 12.28)] states that “The Subcontractor shall provide security of his lay-down area,
offices, workshops and storage facilities as per the conditions mentioned under Facilities Responsibility
Matrix (Appendix “K”)”. Accordingly, be informed that the safeguard of the store yards which will ensure
that all HSE procedures are being followed at all times is your responsibility.
Consequently, after you have been requested to provide the required security measures numerous
times and since you have failed to do so, we hereby inform you that we have taken all necessary
measures on your behalf to safeguard your store yards and laydown areas . Hence, please be informed
that all required resources have been deployed and security on a twenty-four (24) hour basis has been
allocated at the areas as shown in the enclosure (marked with orange colour). Specifically, two (2)
Security checkpoints with all the required facilities have been successfully established and four (4)
security officers during dayshift and four (4) during nightshift, total eight (8) security officers have been
deployed at the lay down area near ATCC since 7th April 2018 at 18:00 hrs.
Additionally, please be informed that further action must be taken to improve the following matters:
•
All routes/pathways have to be properly segregated; currently, there is no proper segregation.
Please do the needful;
•
Housekeeping must improve immediately;
•
Placement of fencing around the perimeter of the laydowns;
•
It has been noticed that the materials are not stored and covered appropriately. Please ensure
that materials are stored and covered properly;

•
Prepare and circulate safety warning flyers representing any hazards/risks;
•
Ensure that there is a proper entry/exit for all of the laydowns;
•
Ensure that there is adequate lighting during night shift around all concerned areas;
•
Assign emergency personnel and ensure that their contact numbers are displayed as
“Emergency Contacts” in case they are needed at any given time.
In light of the above information, you are informed that you are required to comply at all times with the
Project’s procedures and all of the HSE processes in place.
This is for your information, records and further action.
Yours faithfully,
