Abu

Subject : Claim Process
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1}, (2}, {3} and (4} wherein the Contractor has
stated its disagreement with the Engineer's correspondence regarding the Contractor's failure to abide
by the contractual requirements in relation to its obligation to submit delay notices, full details and
particulars as well as a Time Impact Analysis within the required timeframe in Clause 27.1 of the
Conditions of Contract.
The Contractor's assertion that it is the Engineer's and/or the Employer's obligation to identify "the
delays" is erroneous and contractually unsupported. Clause 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract
clearly establish the Contractor's obligations regarding the claim process and the required timeframes
which need to be complied with.
The Contractor's attempt in correspondence {3} to pass the responsibility of its own fai lure to comply
with Clauses 27.1 and 27.2 to the Engineer is rejected. The Contractor's excuse that it has not complied
with the Contract as a result of the changes incurred in the Project is not valid. We reiterate our position
in correspondence (6) in respect to this issue. Furthermore, we record that the Contractor has never
requested the relaxation of the timeframe
requirements specified in the above stated Clauses. Pursuant to Clause 9.1.2 of the Conditions of
Contract, the rights and remedies of either Party under the Contract may only be waived by formal
written waiver which is signed by a duly authorized representative. The Contractor is therefore
requested to evidence that it has requested the Employer's rights under Clause 27.1 and 27.2 to be
waived and that such waiver has been provided.

The Contractor's statement regarding the alleged failure of the Engineer to honour its obligations with
respect to the Contractor's claims is also rejected. The Contractor refers to correspondence {7) and {9)
to
support its allegation against the Engineer. The Engineer reiterates the contents of its correspondence
{8) and {10).
Furthermore, the Contractor's statement that the Engineer has not provided detailed comments on the
Contractor's submission for EOT 2 is unfounded. The Contractor is referred to correspondence {11), {12)
and {13) where the Engineer communicated the identified deficiencies of the Contractor's EOT2
submission and requested the Contractor to address them. The Contractor was requested to assess,
audit and determine its Subcontractors Costs instead of passing their claims to the Engineer and also to
provide the required concurrency analysis. For the record, the Contractor to date has failed to adhere to
these obligations.
The Contractor also purports that the Engineer has failed to issue an interim extension of time against
its
EOT2 claim. However, and as previously communicated via {14) the Contractor has not provided the
required evidence of compliance with Clause 16.5.2, 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract.
Therefore, until such time as the Contractor evidences otherwise, it is deemed to have waived its rights
for additional time and/or cost under the Contract.
In light of the above, it is apparent that the Contractor has systematically and continuously have failed
to
adhere to its Contractual obligations with regards to its claim submissions.
Subject RE: Notification of Delay: W rapper Mullion Columns for 7W, GAW: Scaffolding
Dear Sir,
Obstruction to the Completion of touch up painting works
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor notifies that the crash
deck installation is obstructing its access to the wrapper mullion columns in 7W and 6AW and therefore
preventing the completion of the 'touch up and painting works'. To be clear:
The Contractor records that the painting works referred by the Subcontractor in its letter (1) should
have
been undertaken (and protected) upon completion of the de-propping activities in June 2016 when the
ceiling crash deck was not even installed; in other words, these works should have been completed by
the
Subcontractor a while ago.
Moreover, the Contractor confirms that it served regular notifications to the Subcontractor thus advising
that numerous open fronts were available to the Subcontractor to progress the AESS painting works of
the
wrapper mullions; however, the Subcontractor neglected the Contractor's directions. These notifications
include, but are not limited to, letter references (2) and (3). The Contractor confirms therefore that any
impediment to accessing these areas being now encountered by the Subcontractor is a consequence of
its

own delays and lack of implemented mitigation measures.
In respect of the Subcontractor's opinion that it is entitled to an extension to the Time for Completion
and
reimbursement of 'additional prolongation costs', the Contractor advises the Subcontractor that in
correspondence (1) it has neither evidenced the impact of the alleged delay to its programme nor has it
stated the implemented mitigation measures for the avoidance of the alleged delay. Should the
Subcontractor intend to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the content of letter (1), the
Subcontractor is reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28) from
the date of the events which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of Clause
27 .1.5 of the Conditions of Subcontract. Furthermore, the Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a
Time
Impact Analysis in accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within twenty-one (21) days in order to enable the
Contractor to review any entitlement the Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost. The
Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the aforementioned contractual
obligations
as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's claim. Finally,
and for the sake of clarity, the Contractor reiterates that 'Substantial Completion' is a contractual
term meaning that 'the Subcontract Works have reached the state of completeness described in Clause
18
of the Conditions of Subcontract'; this has not yet been achieved by the Subcontractor.
Yours faithfully,
