Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0172 [Update to E-Notice No. 0122]
Delays to Completion of the Works due to a Further Change in Requirements to the Material to be
applied to the Surface of Precast Planters and Seating

Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays to the Works due to further changes subsequent to ENotice No. 0122 (issued vide letter ref: 1), i.e. the further change in requirements to the material to be
applied to the surface of the precast concrete planters and seating throughout the MTB.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 21 August 2019 we submitted E-Notice No. 0122 via letter ref: (1), notifying you of the delays and
disruption to the Works consequent upon the protracted delays in the selection and approval by you of
a material to be applied to the surface of all precast concrete planters and seating throughout the MTB.
The information recorded within the content of and attachments to E-Notice No. 0122 shows that
application trials of eleven (11) different types of sealer first commenced in January 2019 and then
subsequently culminated in the submission of hydrophobic coating sealer (‘A-Z Ultra Sealer for Precast
Planters’) by way of MS/0401/A/1756 Rev. 00, which was approved by you on 9 July 2019.
However, following completion of the Mock-up and after numerous comments, discussions and site
visits, you have since instructed us to change the material from hydrophobic coating sealer (‘A-Z Ultra
Sealer for Precast Planters’) to ‘Durathane Matt’ paint by Jotun. Specifically, within your e-mail dated 20
October 2019 [at 1:35pm] (copy attached) you state:
“An inspection has taken place at gate B16 about the Planter paint proposals.
Please proceed with the Oil based paint (Jotun), in parallel be sure to complete the official
documentation to capture this change …” [Bold and underlined for emphasis]
It is for this reason that we issue this E-Notice, to inform you that your instructed change is exactly that,
a change, and accordingly will cause further delays and disruption to our Works.
All of the technical details in support of the ‘Durathane Matt’ paint were submitted for your approval via
Material Submittal (MS) No. MS/0401/A/1786 Rev. 00 on 7 November 2019. We note that at the date of
this E-Notice (which is 11 November 2019), MS/0401/A/1786 has not yet been responded to.
While acknowledging that the additional cost of the material application to the planters is deemed to be
included within SAA8, however, the additional time associated with both the initial delay subject to ENotice No. 0122 and now this further delay subject to this E-Notice No. 0172, cannot possibly be
construed as forming part of the ‘included circumstances’ per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8, particularly in view
of the fact that the material you require to be applied to the planters and seating has changed.
Resultant Impact
The further change in requirements to the material to be applied to the surface of the precast concrete
planters and seating throughout the MTB described within this E-Notice No. 0172 will cause delay and

disruption to our Works. We once more draw attention to the fact that there are circa 470 precast
planters located within the Terminal Building and the delays to the application of the paint will
invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this has the
potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
