Subject:Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000534 dated 28th February
2018 received on 4th March 2018.
Mosart Marble & Mosaic International S.A.L have suffered additional costs and damages as a result
of the poor performance of M/S Plus Pa inting (Screed Works Subcontractor). We enclose a copy of
our letter reference MMM/16/PPW/007 dated 27th March 2016 in support of this statement.

We shall furnish the detailed particulars of our counter claim to M/S Plus Paint for their
agreement/settlement, failing which we shall pursue our full contractual and legal rights pursuant
to the Subcontract Agreement we have with M/S Plus Paints. In the meantime any failure to settle
amounts due on our account as a result of the poor performance of M/S Plus Paints will also be
levied against the Subcontractor as further damages arising directly from their breach of our
Subcontract Agreement with M/S Plus Paints.
You are reminded that withholding a valid payment entitlement for works done under our contract
constitutes a breach of contract, giving rise to a cause of action for damages and other remedies. In
the event that we suffer such damages and additional costs as a result of the failure of the TCAJV to
make payment with respect to this issue, and such sums are not recoverable from our
Subcontractor, we shall seek to recover the same, plus interest and damages from the TCAJV.
Subject:Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We have been informed directly by your lower tier subcontractor M/S “Plus Painting” (Screed Works
subcontractor) pertaining to a dispute with you, regarding a significant unpaid amount in regards to
their work executed on your behalf. We have been advised that the outstanding disputed net amount is
1,127,825.72 AED.
Please be informed that this dispute does not concern TCAJV from a contractual perspective,
nonetheless, we do have a duty of care in regards to Sub-Subcontractor Payments. In this instance, with
reference to Clause 21.3 of the Subcontract Agreement between the Parties, states that:
21.3.1 The Subcontractor shall in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant
subcontracts pass on to the relevant Sub-subcontractors and/or suppliers all payments received from
the Contractor in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to such Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers.
21.3.2 Where the Subcontractor determines that monies should be withheld and/or deducted from a
Sub-subcontractor and/or supplier's account, the Subcontractor shall not claim and shall not be entitled
to payment of the amount of the approved withholding and/or deduction until such time as the
Subcontractor determines payments to the relevant Sub-subcontractor and/or supplier should be
resumed.
21.3.3 Before issuing any Interim Payment Certificate the Contractor and/or the Contractor may
demand from the Subcontractor reasonable evidence that all previous amounts paid to the
Subcontractor in respect of costs claimed by the Subcontractor as being due to Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers (less any retentions) have been paid by the Subcontractor. If the Contractor has not
received such reasonable evidence within three (3) Days of such a request, the Contractor may (at its
sole discretion) either:
(a)
withhold such amounts from any further payment due to the Subcontractor; or

(b)
pay such amount (or any part of such amount) directly to the relevant Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers on behalf of the Subcontractor and recover such amount from the Subcontractor by
deducting and setting-off such amount from any future payment due to the Subcontractor.
In light of the aforementioned, we believe the only option available, is that detailed under Clause 21.3.3
(a). You are therefore instructed to commence meaningful dialogue with your Subcontractor M/S Plus
Painting to bring this issue to a swift and amicable conclusion. In this regard, we expect this dispute to
be resolved immediately; failure to provide any solution will result in the direct withholding of the
outstanding balance in accordance with the aforementioned Clauses.
Furthermore, you are required to issue any substantiated documents regarding the outstanding
payment of M/S Plus Painting if there is any. Additionally, you are to issue with each monthly payment
application going forward a Financial Disclosure Schedule (FDS).
This is for your utmost attention and further necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
