Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant "seeks clarifications of the
Contractor's assumptions and considerations which make the bases of the Contractor's assessment,
including the following:

a)
criteria and justification to include supporting documents for the specified percentage (40%) for
001 out of 100% design work for Tunnels and Cross Passages,
b)
criteria andjustification to include supporting documents for the specified percentage (40%) of
design work for Cross Passages out of 001 for Tunnels & Cross Passages,
c) justification for the alleged additional cost of "Engineering Analysis to demonstrate that evacuation
can be achieved under tenable conditions ' including supporting documents."

In response to the Engineer's Assistant's request the Contractor hereby clarifies that:

a)
there are no contract provisions to support the percentage of 40% for DD1 and 60% for DD2.
However, this assumption has been based on the estimated volume of work required for each design
stage. This assumption applies to all design packages and not only Tunnels and Cross Passages.

b)
the Contractor encloses herewith its proposal for the Price Adjustment, including a detailed
breakd(#wn of the Design. This breakdown is based on the estimated volume of work required for its
design package.

c)
the Contractor asserts that the Engineer's Instruction to initiate a variation pursuant to SubClause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of the Main Contract, as received under reference 3), does not
exonerate the Contractor from the obligation to obtain the approval of the design from QCCD. Such
approval from QCDD, can only be obtained if the Contractor demonstrates, by means of an Engineering

Analysis, that the Engineer's Instruction can be achieved under tenable and, most importantly, safe
conditions.

The cost of the Engineering Analysis is OAR 294,229.00 as per the enclosed Fee Change Notice No. 060
- Adoption of Singapore Solution Impact Analysis from ATK INS.

For the record, the Contractor confirms that the design has been revised in compliance with the
Engineer's Instruction reference 3) and the works are progressing accordingly.
In the event that the Engineer instructs the Contractor not to proceed with the Engineering Analysis, or
the Engineering Analysis proves that the implementation of the Engineer's Instruction might reduce the
safety or suitability of the Works, or the design will not be approved by QCDD, the Contractor shall not
be held liable under the Contract or otherwise.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
