Subject: RE: Replacement of Damaged Glass in the PrO South Gable l2.0- Contractor's
Dear Sir,
Instruction Ref Cl-0342
Further to the Subcontractor's letter references (1) and (2), please note the following:
1. The Subcontractor sent one site observation report and two letters (5)(7) which identified the Other
Subcontractor China State Construction and Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) as the party who
allegedly damaged the glass in the PrD south gable L2.0. Considering that the Subcontractor's
correspondence has already been forwarded to CSCEC, it is unfortunate that the Subcontractor
changes now its narrative and blames the damage on a different organization.
2. In view of point 1 above, the Contractor does not concur with the Subcontractor that the facts are
'indisputable'. The Contractor reiterates that the Subcontractor remains responsible for providing
sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of
its claim.

3. The Contractor finds the Subcontractor's expression of disappointment regrettable, because under
the Conditions of Subcontract, if the Subcontractor considers itself to be entitled to additional
payment, the Subcontractor is obliged to provide supporting and further particulars as the Contractor
may reasonable require. To be clear, whilst requesting the Subcontractor to provide reasonable
evidence that the Subcontract Works were properly protected as required by Clauses 15.6.2 and
24.2.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor is neither deflecting responsibility nor
depriving the Subcontractor of its rights.
Subject: Payment to ELV on behalf of Bond Trading Co. LLV4. The Contractor understands that the
Subcontractor believes itself to be entitled to a Variation;
however, it has not explained why the rectification of the damage constitutes a Variation to the
Subcontract.
5. It is because of the Subcontractor's failure to comply with all the above that the Contractor has been
unable to attempt to recover moneys from Other Subcontractor(s). Therefore, the Subcontractor's
allegation that the Contractor is in breach of its duty of care is adamantly rejected.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has issued to the Subcontractor an instruction which is
necessary
for the remedying of defects (3) in accordance with Clause 11.3.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract. Be
reminded that the Subcontractor 'shall comply with the instructions given by the Contractor on any
matter
related to the Subcontract' pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned clause. In other words, the
Subcontractor does not have the right to state that 'procurement will be dependent upon us first
receiving
your formal variation order instruction' and is breach of Subcontract whilst refusing to comply with the
instruction given by the Contractor.
Pursuant to Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor hereby
notifies
the Subcontractor that it shall make good its failure and comply with the Contractor's instruction within
seven
days of this notice.
Yours faithfully,
