Subject Health, Safety & Wellbeing during Ramadan and Summer Time Working
Cross Ref. None
Dear Sir,
The Engineer writes to remind the Contractor of their obligations to adequately plan and prevent the
potential exposure of personnel during the summer months, with the rapid increase in temperatures
and the associated challenges of working in these conditions.
Additionally, as the Holy Month of Ramadan has commenced, the Contractor is required to identify
and implement all measures to safeguard all personnel.
The Contractor is required to submit their updated Summer Working Plans that clearly outlines the
arrangements and controls across all of the areas, activities and staff. The Contractor is required
within their plan to cover all local legislative requirements such as the following points, but not limited
to:
1. Record your up to date review and assessment in accordance with current and planned
conditions.
2. Awareness and prevention training program in accordance with local legislative requirements
and the maintenance of all training records.
3. Working condition assessments prior to and during work activities. This includes accurate
assessments of Thermal Work Limits (TWL), maintenance of these TWL readings and your
implemented actions in line with legislative requirements. All TWL readings, timings, locations
and workers rest periods must be recorded.

4. Welfare and rest facilities to accommodate employees and provide cold and clean drinking
water, mechanically cooled and clean facilities.
5. Locations of hydration and the quality of drinking water.
6. Shaded and welfare facilities, workplaces with mechanical air conditioned cooling systems.
7. Compliance with all legislative requirements, such as AD-OSHAD CoP 11.0 Safety in Heat.
The Contractor must officially submit the up to date Summer Working/Heat Stress Mitigation Plans no
later than 22 May 2019.
As the MTB building has become more complete and enclosed, the lack of any natural air flow is
already presenting uncomfortable working conditions in areas of the MTB where Air Cooling systems
are not operating or not provided. This will soon become a major issue with potential work stoppages
in line with the Contractors' own procedures and legislative requirements. These mandatory work
stoppages based upon the TWL readings has the potential to add further productivity delays to the
completion on the finished facility. The Contractor is required to address this issue as a matter of
urgency to maintain working hours in full compliance with requirements.
Yours faithfully,
