Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer issued a Variation instruction for the
optimization of Station entrances "with respect to minimum number of vertical transportation
elements, the size and height of shelters and run off area."

In its instruction, the Engineer conditioned the implementation of the optimisation of Station entrances
stating that "the optimization as stated hereunder shall apply to entrances as recommended in the
attached conceptual presentation."

The Contractor has reviewed in detailthe above mentioned conceptua l presentation and comments as
follows:

The requirement under letter reference 1) to optimize Entrance 03 at Al Sadd Station and reminds the
Engineer's Assistant that this shelter also includes escape stair S28 and a BoH mechanical room. Due to
this fact, its optimization would trigger extensive redesign both at Subway and at grade levels with
undesirable results such as additional pop-ups next to the entrance shelter.

The optimization of Entrances 03, 04 and 05 at Sport City Station was instructed by deleting one
escalator and one elevator, as opposed to the Contractor's proposal under reference 2) that involves
deleting only one elevator.The Contractor hereby informs the Engineer's Assistant that, by deleting only
one elevator at these Entrances, the design impact would be minimized by avoiding extensive redesign
at subway level. Moreover, this would expand the typology of other six optimized Entrances (WAC 02,
VIL 02, SAD 01, SAC 02, SHQ 01 and 02), thus creating a standardization that will be beneficial both from
the branding and procurement perspectives.

In this respect, the Contractor continues to be of the opinion that the partial optimization of Entrances
03, 04 and 05 at Sport City Station and not optimizing Entrance 03 at Al Sadd Station is a preferable
solution and would like to kindly request the Engineer to reconsider its position in this regard.

Further to the above, the Contractor has revisited its proposal for the optimisation of the Stations
entrances under reference 2) and encloses herewith its revised proposal to include the following:

The Engineer's unnumbered instruction for the deletion of Entrance 04 at Al Sadd Station and of the
associated pedestrian tunnel;
E.I. no.121 for the addition of Entrance 03 at National Museum of Qatar Station;

ALYSJ
joint venture

The new rough layout of the underground level of Joann Station presenting the relocation of the MEP
plant room along the subway as a result of optimizing Entrance 01;
The conceptual relocation of the escape stairs SO? and S08 from the current position next to Entrance
E01 at Joaan Station.

However, in order to complete its assessment of the Optimization of Entrances impact on the design,
the Contractor hereby requests the following additional information:

The final decision regarding the deletion or relocation I optimization of Entrance E03 at Souq Waqif
Station;
The final decision regarding the provision of retailin the Subway to Entrance 03 at Souq Waqif Station;
The final decision regarding the deletion or relocation I optimization of Al Sudan Entrance 02.

Concluding, the Contractor kindly requests the Engineer's Assistant to provide the afore-mentioned
information and its agreement to the Contractor's proposal for the optimization of the Station's
Entrances, and issue a revised Engineer's Instruction accordingly.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
