Subject: Subcontractor's Application for Extension of Time No. 02- Black Flag Days
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the Subcontractor's application for the reimbursement of costs associated to its
Extension of Time No. 2 made via its letter reference (1), particularly, to the Subcontractor's alleged
right
to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the reduced productivity of its workforce during the
summer.

The Subcontractor claims that its ability to comply with its intended programme was impacted by the
unfavourable weather conditions and high temperatures prevalent during the summer months.
Additional
breaks and increased quantity of water for site operatives are cited by the Subcontractor as examples of
how its activity was disrupted and its productivity reduced . The Subcontractor submitted disruption
costs
in an amount of AED 9,015,919.84 for labour that allegedly remained idle during the months of April
2015
to December 2016 and included a cost breakdown under Appendix 5 to its 'Application for the
Reimbursement of Prolongations Associated Costs' narrative.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that the majority of the idle periods claimed by the Subcontractor comprise
interruptions occurred during the 'summer midday ban' imposed by the Ministry of Human Resources
and
Emiratisation. The 'summer midday ban' is a mandatory break for UAE's labourers thus making illegal
working outdoors between 12.30 pm and 3.00 pm from 15 June until15 September. The 'summer
midday
ban' has been in force in the UAE for the last 13 years; hence, the Subcontractor should have considered
these mandatory breaks when preparing its programme and forecasting its productivity during the
summer.
In respect of those interruptions occurred during periods outside the 'summer midday break', the
Contractor confirms that the Project's Health and Safety Plan includes an effective heat stress
programme
which assesses environmental conditions utilizing the Thermal Work Limit (TWL) to determine work/rest
breaks and water consumption requirements for employees. In accordance with Abu Dhabi
Occupational
Safety and Health System Framework, the implementation of such heat stress programme is a
mandatory
requirement at any worksite that has, or is it reasonably foreseeable to have, a temperature at or above
35 degrees Celsius. The Contractor is of the opinion that an Experienced Subcontractor should have
foreseen that the temperatures on Site would exceed 35 degrees Celsius during the summer and
therefore should have predicted (and allowed for) occurrences of interruptions during the hot season in
the UAE. Please be reminded that pursuant to Clause 12.14.4 and Clause 14.7.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract,
the Subcontractor shall fully comply with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements as may be
reasonably revised from time to time. Moreover, in accordance with the provisions of Clause 14.4.1, it is
the Subcontractor's obligation to comply with 'all labour related Applicable Laws relevant to the
Subcontractor's Personnel, including the Labour Law, Social Security Law and any other Applicable Laws
relating to their employment, health, safety, welfare'.
Notwithstanding the fact that the Site records of stoppages occurred due to hot weather differ from
those
claimed by the Subcontractor, the Contractor confirms that it proceeded fully in compliance with both
the

Subcontract and the Applicable Laws whilst stopping the execution of the works when the high
temperature environment jeopardised the safety of the Personnel working on Site. Should the
Subcontractor be of the opinion that the Contractor's 'flags' were declared whilst it was safe for its
labourers to work, relevant evidence shall be provided thus demonstrating that the TWL was within the
tolerance limits.
Finally, please be informed that the Contractor has undertaken an assessment of the Subcontractor's
claim for reimbursement of additional costs as a result of 'Black Flag Days' and all relevant circumstances
in connection with such event. The Contractor has concluded that the contractual basis of the
Subcontractor's claim is invalid on account of the fact that the Subcontractor's abidance by the Health
and
Safety regulations is both a contractual and legal obligation of the Subcontractor.
Stuart
Subject: Subcontractor's Obligations under Clause 12.5.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract Maintenance
of Performance Security

Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers the Subcontractor to Interim Payment Certificate No. 51 which records the value
of the
Subcontract Works carried out up to the end of November 2017.
The Contractor records that, up to the end of November 2017, Variation Orders and contra charges had
been
issued to the Subcontractor in amounts of AED 72,304,567.82 and AED (12,529,289.28) respectively. The
issuance of these Variation Orders and contra charges has resulted in an adjustment to the Subcontract
Price
equal to AED 59,775,278.54. In other words, the Subcontract Price has been increased by an amount
greater
than the percentage specified in Schedule 1 [Subcontract Particulars] which is ten percent (10%).
Pursuant to the provisions of Clause 12.5.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract, the Contractor directs the
Subcontractor to provide an additional security so that the increased amount of security is the
percentage of
the increased Subcontract Price within fourteen (14) days of receipt of this direction.
Subject: RE: Notice of Delay- Bottom Last Panel for Car Park Link Bridge (CPLB)
Dear Sir,
Further to the Subcontractor's letter reference (1), please find attached the response received from the
Other Subcontractor Gulf Precast Company LLC (Gulf Precast) in respect of the alleged misalignment of
the concrete slab edge of the CPLB.
Gulf Precast refutes the Subcontractor's claim and confirms that the slab edges of the CPLB were
executed

within the permitted tolerance limits. Gulf Precast further affirms that the concrete slab was executed
more than fourteen months ago and therefore is surprised about the Subcontractor's delayed allegation
that the edge is 'out of tolerance'. The Contractor concurs with Gulf Precast and confirms that it will not
accept any liability vis-a-vis any delay incurred by the Subcontractor in the completion of the CPLB
derived
from its late notification of this issue.
For the record, the Contractor regrets the Subcontractor's lack of cooperative approach in respect of
notifying the parties in advance, coordinating with Other Subcontractors, producing the sketches
requested by the Contractor and/or assisting in proposing a technical solution to this problem.
Notwithstanding the above and further to the joint survey undertaken between the Contractor, the
Subcontractor and Gulf Precast, the Subcontractor is requested to consult with Gulf Precast and assist
the
Contractor in finding a satisfactory solution to this issue.
Yours faithfully,
