Subject: Engineer's Instruction No. 7768- Bullet in 262.2 - Pier 2 Grouting Works
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your letters noted above. Engineer's Instruction (EI ) No. 776B enclosed
with your above referred letter, instructed us to implement Bulletin No. 262.2 with immediate
effect.
The instruction contained fifty-seven IFC Drawings, consisting of one cover page, three index sheets
(Index Sheets 1, 4 and 6; whereas Sheets 2 and 3 presumed missing), eleven coordinates sheets
11II
and forty-two detailed layout drawings to indicate the grouting point locations. There was no key
IIII
plan for the zones around Pier 2 Area, nor were they annotated by any means of a direction
indicator, as all were rotated to fit the paper work-space.
Within these fifty-seven (57) drawings, there are 14 completely new IFC drawings corresponding to:
MTA Storm and Sewage (5 No Drawings: Drawing No 961 through 965),
MTA Storm and Sewage Coordinates Table(s) (2 No Drawings: No. 967 and 968)
MTA Utilities (5 No Drawings: Drawing No 981 through 985) and
MTA Utilities Coordinates Table(s) (2 No Drawings: No. 987 and No. 988)
Above referred drawings are adding 986 new grouting points, most being clouded to annotate
"Subject to further review upon additional CPT information being provided. Will be updated in
Future Bulletin". These new points are located adjacent to the services installed by the MTA
Contractor, Larsen and Toubro (L&T), and it assumed the grouting is required to improve the
ground conditions below these services.
In past meetings both you and Employer's representative have stated that the subsidence around
the building has been caused by the "groundworks, either cut or fill, done by TCA JV". When
confronted with the fact that many other areas around the building not part of our Works have
suffered and continue to suffer subsidence, we have been advised to ''demonstrate" . We submit
that your instruction to grout under the installation of other contractors in an area that does not
form part of our Site constitutes the required 'demonstration'.
Setting aside the insufficiency of information provided we regret that we consider your instruction
to be invalid as it exceeds the Engineer's Authority, in that it requires us to work in an area that is
beyond our Site: we are not able to carry out any of the works implied by this instruction. Should
the Employer desire this additional grouting to be carried out, we would expect that he direct you
to issue us with an El providing fully detailed information including accurate as-built drawings and
requesting us to provide a ROM in respect of the following:
(i) a price for the additional works;
(ii) a fragnet for the additional works; and
(iii) the integration of the fragnet within Programme Rev 11.2 to demonstrate the
effects (if any) on the Milestones;
(iv) given the ongoing failures evident in the current installation, such a ROM would

exclude all costs and liability in respect of the removal and reinstatement of
concrete apron, drainage and other works - we suggest these would have to be
carried out by the original contractor.
We advise that due notification be given to the Employer's insurer of these failing installations, as
they will not be covered by the CAR Policy for this Project.
Yours faithfully,
