
Subject: RE: Subcontract Obligation pursuant to Specification Section 019800 Building Information
Modelling (BIM)
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of the Subcontractor's letter reference {1) which responds to a letter
sent
by the Contractor in June 2016 {2).
The Contractor wishes to clarify that the purpose of its letter reference (2) was to obtain a status update
and delivery plan from the Subcontractor in respect of its BIM submissions. The Contractor notes that
that
the Subcontractor's formal update has been received almost nineteen months after the request was
made
and therefore some of the comments made by the Subcontractor are outdated. Notwithstanding this,
the
Contractor responds in seriatim as follows:
1. The Contractor confirms that both model and data already provided cover the requirements set out
in the Specification 019800; however, the Subcontractor shall further elaborate a detailed
explanation of its approach in a brief report.
2. See item 1.
3. See item 1.
4. See item 1.
5. The Subcontractor shall prepare a more detailed and comprehensive report which shall include
specific paragraphs, workflows and figures whereby the work process for the different Levels of
Development (LODs) is exactly portrayed. The Subcontractor has provided a brief explanation thus
far which is insufficient to fully understand the development process.
6. The red line marked drawings shall be extracted from the updated LOD 400 model (i.e. Level of
Development completed to fabrication and assembly conditions). This way of proceeding is in
accordance with the CAD standards included in the BIM Implementation Plan which specify that site

updates will be incorporated to the drawings in red colour. The Subcontractor's brief explanation on
why the red line marked drawings shall not be incorporated into the LOD 400 is insufficient and
therefore the Contractor requests that the Subcontractor prepares a detailed and comprehensive
report whereby its red line marked drawings strategy is described.
The contractor confirms that the subcontractor has submitted an updated proposal for a QA/QC
checklist which is currently under the Engineer’s review; once this assessment is completed, the
contractor will forward the engineer’s feedback / comments to the subcontractor
The contractor refutes the subcontractor’s statement that BIM modeling is not related to drafting
standard and therefore it is not possible and not required to implement the CAD manual into the
models. To be clear, the subcontractor shall explain how all required drawings will be extracted from the
model or, in other works, how the CAD manual requirements (appendices of the BIM implementation
plan) will be executed.
Yours faithfully
