
Dear Sir,

With reference to the above subject, ALYSJ JV confirms receipt of an email at reference 1 from an
Ashghal representative requesting ALYSJ JV to upgrade the sewer network line passing at Qatari Bin
Fujaah Street.

Unfortunately ALYSJ JV's Contract with Qatar Rail only allows for the diversion/protection of utilities,
and would only be in a position contractually to upgrade this sewer line following the receipt of a
written Instruction from Qatar Rail. As such ALYSJ JV would respectfully request that Ashghal directs this
request for upgrades to its network, directly to Qatar Rail.

ALYSJ JV would note that the foul sewer utility diversion works at Al Adhawaa (Bin Mahmoud) Station
are being executed in accordance with Ashghal's enclosed Foul Sewer Line Diversion Approval. ALYSJ JV
was unaware of Ashghal's requirement until this very late stage in the construction works and is
disappointed with Ashghal's withholding of the required permit to do the final re-connection into the
existing manhole.

In light of the above, Ashghal representative's refusal to provide the necessary permit to connect the
diverted sewer line is impacting on this Project which is a key to the planned development of the State
of Qatar. For the sake of clarity the likely impacts of carrying out this work are as follows:

The time impact for this change will be a minimum of 2 months delay due to the bullet points below a.
Design must be changed and approved by PMC and Ashghal
b.
Qatari Bin Al Fujaah street will need to be closed completely between Abu Sedaira street and
Bin Mahmoud intersection (it is doubtful that approval would be given from traffic dept)
c.
Note that the requested upgrade for the 400mm dia runs beyond the current traffic
diversion/fenced area for the 1600mm diversion (refer to attached sketch).
d.

There will be no access available to quality hypermarket

e.
ALYSY-JV re-instatement of the Temporary Traffic Diversion cannot be done until this work is
complete

f.
Continuation of piling works in West corner is pending the reinstatement of the Temporary
Traffic Diversion, (road above the diverted 1600mm, 500mm & 200mm), and would subsequently be
delayed
g.

Manholes will require adjustment

h.

A further road diversion would be required

i.

The new 400 dia pipes will have to be procured

Alternatively the Contractor would suggest that a more prudent approach would be to allow the current
works to be completed on schedule and subsequent to the completion of the station carry out these

further upgrading works.This would prevent delay to the station works which would be Qatar Rail's main
concern.

The Contractor has informed Qatar Rail of the issue and would appreciate if Ashg hal could liaise with
them to agree the best way forward for all concerned parties.

This is for your information and necessary action.

Yours faithfully,
