Subject: Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim Delay Notice No. 1014 - Delays to Information and
Communication Technology
Delays to Telephone System Initial Site Acceptance Tests
Dear Sir,
On 21 February 2018, the Contractor received letter ref: 1, dated 21 February 2018 from the
Information
and Communication Technology ('ICT') package subcontractor ('TAVIT'), notifying the Contractor that
although "TAVIT performed TS /SAT ... we ore not able to complete ... some of the test which is related
to
PRI/ines" . TAVIT further stated that this was as a result of "waiting [for] PRI/ines to be ready by ADAC to

perform relate[ d) test cases".
Although it was initially stated by the Employer that the Primary Rate Interface ('PRI') lines would be
ready
by the first week in January 2018, this failed to happen. Further to which, it was subsequently advised
that
the lines would now not be available until the end of February, thereby preventing TAVIT's ability
complete Initial Site Acceptance Tests ('ISAT') in accordance with the provisions of Specification Section
270500 'Common Work Results for Telecommunications'.
Accordingly, it is the Contractor's contention that such pending actions and failures constitute a breach
of
the Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer.
Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby
notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.S.l(c); and
(ii) Damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27 .l.S(a), (b) and (c).
Subject: RE: Internal glazing Works Performance
Dear Sir,
At the outset, the Contractor would like to record that the update of the accelerated target Programme
to
Completion Rev 10.4 (with a data date of 1 February 2018), shows no slippages to the target Substantial
Completion dates set for the different sections.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor notes the content and concerns raised in Engineer's letter
(1).
The Contractor has put in place additional measures to address these concerns, which include but are
not
limited to the following:
Introduction of new suppliers to expedite manufacture and delivery of materials to Site;
The Contractor has conducted visits to suppliers to discuss ways on how to improve the
manufacturing and delivery times of the materials;
The Contractor (and it's Subcontractor) shall increase labour resources at site (as applicable) in
order to match the increased rate of delivery of materials to Site; and
Increase in the levels of plant and equipment in line with increased labour and increased rate of
delivery of materials.
Furthermore, for items that may affect testing and commissioning, and cause and effect testing, the
Contractor shall install temporary measures to enable third fix items to be installed, so that
commissioning

works in critical areas will not be affected.
The Contractor is confident that the additional measures put in place will bear positive results. The
Contractor assures all Parties that the Contractor is using all reasonable endeavours to complete the
Works by the accelerated target completion date.
Yours faithfully,
