Subject Contractor's Claim: Compensation for Employer's Breach of Contract {Specification
Dear Sir,
We refer to our letter referenced as (1) above, part of which was a reply to your letter referenced as (2)
above, and note that we have not received any response from you.
The electrical works that the Contractor alleged to have been omitted from the Contract are not part of
the Works under the Contract. Therefore, there cannot be any omission and loss of profit and
overheads.
Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013115 does not place any obligation on the Employer to ensure
that Tenant Contractors employ for their fit out works the Contractor's Subcontractors. The purpose of
the paragraph is to make sure Tenant Contractors procure systems which are the same as or similar to
those provided by the Contractor to ensure continuity and compatibility for a seamless integration of
these systems.
As you are aware, many of the Contractor's Subcontractors, including Anel Emirates, are failing to fulfill
their obligations relating to their existing contracted scope. The Contractor's position that its
Subcontractors can even fulfill additional scope is not true.
Please respond to this letter no later than 7 Days from the date above if you disagree.
Subject: Response to the Engineer's letter- Communication Protocol
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor would respond as follows:
The Contractor notes the content and concern of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. Please be
advised that, the Contractor does not accept and has discouraged any direct communication between
any
Subcontractor and the Employer and/or the Engineer. The Contractor shall investigate and discuss with
Guinault-Lebrun Aircraft Power Systems LLC {GL) about this matter, and shall take necessary actions
accordingly.
The Contractor would highlight the following:
• The Contractor does not have a copy of GL's letter reference (3) above to comment on its content,
as it was not enclosed with the Engineer's letter reference (1) above;
• GL's letter reference (4) above is predominantly related to its performance. Please be advised that,
the Employer has retained the liability for the design and performance of GL's scope of works; and
• In accordance with item no.5 of the Engineer's Instruction No. 35C, whereby the Engineer instructed
the Contractor to appoint GL to implement the Pre-Conditioned Air {PCA) Sub-Freeze Equipment
works, the Contractor understands that, there is a form of direct contract/agreement between the
Employer and GL for design and performance warranty. As such, direct communication between the

Employer and GL is expected.
Considering the above, the Contractor is of the opinion that the direct receipt of GL's letter reference {4)
was acceptable to the Employer and the Engineer, as it is related to the direct contract between the
Employer and GL. This is evidenced by not receiving any objections by the Employer and/or the Engineer
for more than six months.
However, based on the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor shall investigate these
incidents and take necessary actions to stop any further attempts from GL to communicate directly with
the Employer, even for the matters related to its direct contract with the Employer. The Contractor
requests that, the Engineer will advise the Contractor within a reasonable time, should this is not be the
case.
Subject: RE: Claim for Damage- CSC Request for Loading Access in Skylight CL-01
Dear_Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter references (1) and (2) wherein the Subcontractor claims that
personnel employed by the Subcontractor China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC)
damaged the steel frame whilst undertaking lifting operations through the main roof skylight Cll. The
Subcontractor further argues that it incurred additional rectification costs in the amount of AED
2,688.00.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that, in its letter references (1) and (2), the Subcontractor does not provide
any
evidence or explanation on how the Subcontract Works were protected. Moreover, these letters attach
a
recollection of pictures showing lifting operations taking place; yet, it can be observed that no
protection
measures were taken by the Subcontractor to protect the painted steel frame from being 'scratched' by
the
crane's cables, chains or lifted beams.
The Contractor reminds that, pursuant to Clauses 15.6.2 and 24.2.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract,
the
Subcontractor shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection of each part of
the
Subcontract Works until such time as the Taking-Over Certificate is issued by the Contractor.
Please be advised that the Contractor is of the opinion that, in its letter references (1) and (2), the
Subcontractor has not demonstrated contractual entitlement to reimbursement of the alleged
rectification
costs. Notwithstanding this, the Contractor confirms that the Subcontractor's claim has been forwarded
to
CSCEC for its review. Should CSCEC provide any response, it will be forwarded to the Subcontractor in
due
course.
Yours faithfully,
