
Subject:Delay Notice -Contractors Instruction Ref CI/00363A Clearance and Removal of Mock Up
(Engineer Instruction N.684A –Mock Up Building Use)
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letters/submissions referenced (4) and (5) above, pertaining to the
aforementioned subject.
We hereby reject your cost submitted via ROM referenced (4) above, where you submitted a cost for
the clearance and removal of Mock-up (M31A). Furthermore, we respond to your letter (5) where you
are requesting us to amend the wording included in our letter referenced (6) and subsequently letter
referenced (3) in which we instructed you “to proceed with all activities noted as having no cost
impact". We reiterate that the demolition and removal of visual mock-ups when directed by the
Engineer is your responsibility as provided within the Subcontract as follows:
1.
Specification Section 013310: Item 1.1B last sentence states that “demolish and remove mock
ups when directed by Engineer”.
2.
Subcontract Bill 1A/10 Pavilion Package states that “design, provide, maintain the mock up
facilities including external mock up area as detailed in Division 1 Specification 013310” is included in
your scope of works.
Be informed that RFVO-751 which is under process and awaits your response to the Engineer’s
comments dated 4th January 2018, only constitutes the changes in the mock-up itself. It is clearly
mentioned in the specification that when required by the Engineer the mock up should be demolished
and removed. Therefore, no additional statement is required.
We hereby remind you that your current approach of creating such voluminous letters, distorting facts,
resisting towards carrying out your duties, creating impasse points aiming to generate claims will hold
no ground and will only drag the issues with no result.
To conclude, failing to follow instructions shall hold you responsible and you will be backcharged all the
associated amount(s) from your account pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract under Clause 10.3
(Contractor’s Claims) and Clause 12.12 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors) which specify that,
“the Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor or Other Subcontractors for the loss and damages
due to his action.“

Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 and 12.12.

This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
