
Dear Sir,

With the above referenced letter, the Engineer’s Assistant expressed its concern “…over Contractor’s
performance in relation to issues affecting environmental management delivery on the Gold Line Metro
Project, and states that the current performance levels are not in line with the Employer’s Requirements
on a project of this significance”. The Engineer’s Assistant has also highlighted five major issues of
concern with the inclusion of key points there in.
The Contractor is of the opinion that the conclusion drawn is not reflective of actually and suspects that
it arises from incomplete information. The Contractor provides the following comments as the five
issues raised for the Engineer’s Assistant’s further considerations.

1. Quality & Lateness of Environmental Documents submitted by JV to PMC for review
Bullet points 1, 2 & 3:
To facilitate investigation and rectification, the specific documents need to be identified. Alternatively a
workshop could be held to review and report.
Bullet point 4:

Management plans, dewatering reports and permits have been standardized and agreed with the
Engineer’s Assistant as regards specific text to be incorporated. The objective was to make the
submission process quicker and more effective. This explains “cut and paste”.
Bullet point 5:
Environmental management plans, permits and reports are submitted in a timely manner. A detailed
table with all environmental submissions is included every month within the Contractor’s Monthly
Environmental Report. A list with all Contractor’s environmental submissions within the period of 1st of
May 2015 until 31st July 2015 is attached with this letter.
2. Lack of comprehensive monitoring program and lack of adequate and timely monitoring at
construction sites. Additionally, lack of timely mitigation actions when monitoring results showing noncompliance MoE permit limits and Employer’s Requirements
Bullet points 1 & 2:
The MoE dewatering permits have dictated the environmental monitoring program in terms of
frequency and parameters with which the Contactor is in full compliance. Samples are collected weekly
or bi-weekly (as required by each permit) from every site on agreed days, while Inspection & Test
Requests (IREs) are raised in a timely manner. For further clarification of these issues, the Contractor has
submitted the “Locations of Dewatering Sampling – M006-GDB-EMS-SCH-00011” on the locations and
dates of water sampling.
If improvements are required the Contractor shall attend to all specific observations identified by the
Engineer’s Assistant.
Bullet points 3 & 4:
The Contactor has submitted several proposals for a Noise Monitoring Program within the Noise
Baseline Monitoring Report (M006-GDB-EMS-RPT-00011) since December 2014 without managing to
establish an approval from the Engineer’s Assistant. Eventually, the proposed noise monitoring program
has been removed from the Revision 4 of this report in order to achieve a “C-SONO”. In order to resolve
the lack of consensus the Contractor suggests a workshop is arranged with the Engineers assistant.
As the Engineer’s Assistant is aware, the requirements for noise monitoring are contradictory, The
existing background noise levels already exceed the Qatari limits set within Annex 3/5 of the 2005
executive by-Law. In the meantime and until the noise monitoring program is agreed, the Contractor will
continually perform at least one 24hr noise measurement at each construction site.
Regarding vibrations, the monitoring program is part of the “Method Statement for Monitoring &
Instrumentation– M006-GDB-ENG-MES-00004” which is under “C-SONO”. In order to facilitate further
improvements please provide specific concerns for the Contractors attention
All measurements are notified with the necessary IREs.
Bullet point 5:
Air quality or dust measurements are being conducted monthly at each site. The baseline air quality
monitoring program (M006-GDB-EMS-SCH-00007) is under “C-SONO”.

All the above measurements are documented within the dedicated Air Quality, Dewatering, Noise or
Instrumentation & Monitoring Monthly Reports that are being submitted by the Contractor.
Necessary mitigation measures are detailed within the monthly reports, and are implemented by the
individual construction sites.

3. Lack of full compliance with MoE Permits, CEMP-QR requirements, EIA requirements and
recommendations from MoE, including failure to notify MoE in a timely manner on changes by the
Contractor, which affect permitting
Bullet point 1:
The necessary environmental permits have been submitted to, or are already issued by MoE. The
Contactor as part of its Environmental Management System has been assessing the compliance with all
environmental permits, in order for necessary actions to be identified. All assessment documents are
notified to the Engineer’s Assistant.
Bullet point 2:
All notifications to MoE are drafted by the Contractor, submitted to the Engineer’s Assistant and issued
by the Employer to MoE. Please elaborate on the inconsistencies observed in the notifications to the
MoE to enable investigation and rectification.
As regards timely notifications to MoE, construction works evolve such that some required notifications
may become outdated. The Contractor will focus more on providing timely notifications.
Bullet point 3:
Site works evolve quickly and these evolutions can lead to the necessity of requesting new permit(s) and
this should not be considered as lack of permit for completing these works but a revision to an existing
one.
Considering the works that have been completed before the issuance of the MoE permit e.g. grouting,
please be reminded that the requirement for requesting an environmental permit from MoE for the
grouting works has been included in the Employer’s Permitting Manual Rev. 4 issued on November 2014
i.e. after the commencement of the grouting works on site.

4. Lack of timely procurement of competent environmental sub-contractors, monitoring equipment and
waste handling equipment and containers for waste segregation
The Contractor has awarded waste management to Seashore Engineering & Contracting Works. This
subcontractor has been approved (please refer to M006-GDB-COM-SAR-00050).
The Contractor acknowledges the need for improving waste management and is currently evaluating the
existing subcontractor’s performance as well as reviewing alternative capable subcontractors.

5. Lack of effective and sustainable waste management and recycling program for Construction Sites
The purpose on the actions mentioned for the item four above is to generally improve and make more
efficient the waste management and recycling program. This will also contribute to the avoidance of
inadvertently caused errors.
The Contractor does not agree with the Engineer’s Assistant note that the GSAS score related to these
criteria are affected since waste tracking numbers are traceable, Recycling is being carried out and
waste management practices are in place.
Waste is managed in accordance with “Construction Waste Management Plan – M006-GDB-EMS-PLN00007” while Contractor’s Environmental Department supervises and coordinates waste management in
the project. Monthly waste management data is included within Contractor’s Monthly Environmental
Reports and this data is utilized (when relevant) for submissions to GORD for the GSAS Construction
Standard to proceed.
Following the above mentioned we remain at your availability for further cooperation.

Yours faithfully,
