Dear Sir,
In response to the Engineer’s Direction to provide a quotation reference 5) the Contractor has provided
full particulars in accordance to Sub-Clause 13.2.2 vide letters References 2) and 3).

The evaluation of the direct costs presented in the Contractor’s letter reference 3) has been subject to a
workshop with the Engineer’s Assistant. The Engineer’s Assistant has subsequently confirmed his
agreement with the Contractor’s assessment on direct cost impacts.

It is in the nature of changes that their entire costs only become apparent as the implementation of
these changes progresses. Therefore the Engineer is to advise, whether he intends to value Changes at
Risk, but within the contractual short notices he proposes, or at cost, once all the substantiations are
available.

The Contractor will not accept any assessment at cost, before all substantiations for such costs can be
reasonably provided. This way forward consists an act of bad faith with the sole aim to withhold valid
contractual entitlements from the Contractor.

Until further notice the Contractor will proceed and submit the information as early as reasonably
possible and support the Engineer’s Assistant wherever he can with the assessment of Variations.
Dear Sir,

The Engineer's Assistant is in receipt of letter reference 3), as being the Contractor's response to the
Engineer's Direction to provide a quotation reference 1) and 2) and notice that the quotation is not
covering all mandatory components as indicated in the Sub Clause 13.2.2.

In addition the Contractor has submitted on a separate letter reference 4), the design component as
indicated by his Design Consultant together with Subcontract provisions not related to the subject.

The quotation. as portrayed under Sub Clause 13.2.2, submitted in response to a direction issued under
Sub Clause 13.2.1 is to include the following:

(a)

a detailed scope of the proposed Variation (including any drawings or technical details);

(b)
a detailed breakdown of the price for which the Contractor would carry out the proposed
Variation, including any delay or disruption costs which may be incurred by the Contractor as a
consequence of the proposed Variation, and including the overhead and profit for such Variation to be
determined through the percentage in the Contract Particulars (Appendix 2), which percentage shall
remain fixed for the duration of the Contract;

(c)
and

the effect (if any) of the proposed Variation on the Time for Completion and the Programme;

(d)
the expiry period for acceptance of the quotation which shall be not less than 28 days (or, for
urgent work, such shorter time as the Engineer may, in writing, allow) from the date of receipt by the
Engineer of the Variation proposal.

Therefore, the Contractor is requested to submit the comprehensive quotation by 10 November 2016
Yours faithfully,
