Subject Lack of Mosart Productivity and Resources
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to Mosart's performance and we remind the Contractor that it is fully
responsible for the management of its Subcontractors. The Jack of Mosart's resources being
encountered across the MTB Building, is noticeable and is affecting the progress of the Works.
The Contractor has advised that Mosart's productivity will start to benefrt: when open areas are
provided
to them and as such Mosart have never really been able to suitably progress due to constrained access
to areas as managed by the Contractor. Currently, numerous large access areas are available across the
whole building for Mosart to progress their works and they are unable to furnish the resources required
to progress these urgent works.
It is noted that your Subcontractor to date has been unable to progress the works to an acceptable
manner nor provided the level of resources that are commensurate with the open work fronts. This in
turn resulted in delays to the installation of screed and stone work.
Please advise the actions that the Contractor is undertaking to clear any outstanding issues with the
works being described above in order to meet the project requirements. Should you continue to fail
your
deliverables with respect to these works, the Contractor shall submit its plan to backfill the
requirements
of the screed and stone package.
We further remind the Contractor of its obligations and responsibilities under Clause 12.9
Subcontracting.
Pa
Subject: Warning to Project Manager - Final Warning
Dear Sir,
We have ascertained that your project manager has failed to carry out her responsibilities and duties in
accordance with the Project Requirements in a timely manner.
It has been witnessed that your project manager Ms Antel lliovits has failed to following site activities
closely and

dealing with our site management very unprofessionally. Moreover, she keeps misleading our team and
giving
false reports and information to obscure her failures.
Aforementioned failures by your project manager cause delays to achievement of the critical milestone
dates.
Therefore, we hereby issue a warning letter in pursuant to the Clause 14.9.3 that of the Subcontractor
Agreement;
'The Contractor may require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed} any key personnel
or any other
person employed on the Site or Subcontract Works, including the Subcontractor's Representative if
applicable, who
in the reasonable opinion of the Contractor:
(a) persists in any misconduct or lack of care
(b) carries out duties incompetently or negligently
(c) fails to conform with any provisions of the Subcontract; or
(d) persists in any conduct which is prejudicial to safety, health or the protection of the Environment"
Our instruction is issued according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 12.12 where the
Subcontractor is required to cooperate with the Contractor to ensure the coordination including
timeframes,
programmes and schedules for the completion of the Subcontract Works. As she informed previously,
please take
immediate actions to fix the problems on the site not later than 2 weeks. Failing such, we shall
determine a
solution to overcome the above issue at your own cost which we will inform you in due course include
the removal
of the responsible staff
Subject: Notice of Delay- Screed and Stone Installation Progress at CP
Dear Sir,
We refer to above mentioned subject matter and record your persistent failure in completion of
aforesaid works in a timely manner as required and our concern over ongoing Site delays caused by you
due to low progress on site activities.
We record that, your progress of stone installation and screed works shall not achieve the targeted and
planned
quantum of installations. We note that your lack of progress is mainly grounded to your improper
supervision from
your part on the works. Although total area of 16,546 m2 at CP L3.0 is released for screed, only 10,810
m2 is
casted and only 967m2 of stone installation is completed as of August 19, 2017.
In the light of above, you are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 16.6.1,

if you fail to comply with approved Subcontract Programme, you shall indemnify and hold us harmless
against all
damages, costs losses and expenses incurred by us in connection of your delays. Moreover, Subcontract
Clause
16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to comply with Clause 16.2, the Subcontractor shaJJ,
subject to
Clause 10.3, pay delay damages to the Contractor for this default." Therefore, you are required to take
immediate
action to recover from the current delay and achieve the planned progress as earliest.
This is for your utmost attention and further necessary action.
Subject: HSE Contravention: Working without PPE
Dear Sir,
I Reply Required: ¥5 I No I
It has been observed that below mentioned employees were found working without mandatory PPE
on project site.
Name Ref No Title Incident Place Date & Time
This act is a failure towards the compliance of Project procedures and contrary to the project
expectations and standards.
Therefore, consider this letter as Final Warning, violator to attend re-induction, further repetition
penalty will be imposed to the violator under contractual "HSE Violation Schedule Appendix L Serial
#11".
This is for your reference and records.
Yours faithfully,
