Subject: Response to OTIS - Claim for Extension of Time and Prolongation Cost
Dear Sir,

We acknowledge receipt of the above referenced correspondence concerning the purported cla im
submission for an extension of time. Further to our meeting held 21 January 2018 we respond as
follows.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
You have failed to comply with the Conditions of Subcontract, in particular Clauses 16 and 27, by fai ling
amongst other things, to provide complete and full details and particulars for our evaluation.
Despite holding a prior workshop, during which the procedure and methodology for submission of
claims
were explained, you opted to submit a delay claim using "Impacted As Planned Method" . This method
does not correspond to the method of submission/assessment of claims defined under the Subcontract.
We reaffirm the Time Impact Ana lysis (TIA} methodology is the only approved delay analysis
methodology as stipulated under Subcontract Clause 27.2. The adopted analysis does not rely on a true
critical path analysis by not considering actual progress achieved during the occurrence of the delay
events.
We take this opportunity to remind you the Subcontract Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] which
provides that:
27 .2.1 "In order to assist the Contractor in determining the Subcontractor's entitlement to any
extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion claimed by the Subcontractor pursuant to clause
27.1 (Subcontractor's Claims}, the Subcontractor shall, no later than twenty-one (21) Days after
submitting a claim request, prepare and provide to the Contractor a time impact analysis, using a
methodology acceptable to the Contractor, demonstrating the effect and consequences of the
events and periods of delay relied upon by the Subcontractor in its claim (a Time Impact Analysis)."
27 .2.2 "The Subcontractor's Time Impact Analysis shall be based upon the Subcontractor's
detailed Critical Path Subcontract Programme existing at the time of the events and/or periods
of delay under review and shall be provided in hard copy format and in electronic format in a form
in which the Contractor shall be readily able to ascertain, review and understand the
Subcontractor's baseline critical path network and logic links, the assumptions and data inputted by the
Subcontractor into the network pursuant to its analysis, and the effect and consequences of
different combinations of the events and/or periods of delay relied upon by the Subcontractor."
We further observe the purported delay claim submission fails to adequately demonstrate and
substantiate its case. Put simply, your submission, as they stand, fail to prove any entitlement
whatsoever with respect to time and ultimately cost as we consider them to be inadequate to satisfy the
burden of proof.
Therefore, you are recommended act in accordance with the provisions of the Subcontract in pursuing
any claim. SPECIFIC COMMENTS
In addition to the aforementioned methodology comments, we note the following:
• The claim submission is not presented in a proper format and to an extent that will enable us to
understand the entitlement in relation to the delay events.
• It fails to establish the contractual liability for any delay event.
• You fail to adequately demonstrate the cause and the effect of the delay events with full
chronology in the narrative. This has been conveyed in detail during the aforementioned
meeting.

• Lack of progress reports, progress photographs, minutes of meetings and statement of fact
supporting the claim.
• Need to utilize the proper approved baseline programmes as a base of its claims considering the
periods of EOT 1 and EOT 2 such that;
o The delays from the beginning of the project to 5 March 2015 should be analysed based
on the first approved programme with data date 21 April 2013.
o The delays 6 March 2015 to 01 August 2017 should be analysed based on the last
approved programme with data date 06 March 2015. • We recommend you to update the utilized
programme (without any logic change unless agreed
otherwise) considering the site progress at the end of each time slice.
• The intervals ofTIA updates for each event should not be more than 1 month.
• We recommend you to prepare a detailed delay event table in a way that the table indicates
including but not limited to delay event period, pertinent delay/claim notices and individual
interim particulars submitted, if any. This will not only help explain the chronology of each delay
event in more detail but also constitute a record whether the condition precedents under the
Subcontract are met.
• We recommend you to establish the contractual liability for each delay event and provide clear
and detailed narratives of each delay to establish the cause and effect link in a chronological
order.
• Include within any submission predecessor and successor tables together with relationship and
lag details for each delay event and the rationale behind its logic.
• Consider following the below delay impact scenarios while performing monthly TIAs. The
scenarios differ as a result of the origin of the event. • All activity durations in the 'FRAGNETS' especially
procurement durations, if any, should be
fully substantiated.
• Demonstrate what actions taken to mitigate the impacts of each delay event. Pursuant to
Subcontract clause 16.5.3 (b), it is your obligation to take all reasonable actions to avoid or
mitigate delays.
• Demonstrate how the critical path is being changing for each time slice. The rationale behind
is to determine which delay event(s) is/are driving the critical path within each one month
interval.
• Provide programme snapshots of the milestones for each time slice (from a-base
programme, b-progressed programme and c- impacted programme).
• Provide a detailed summary table depicting the results of TIA for all programs that are
utilized.
In addition to the above, we recommend you to follow the below sample outline of a fully detailed delay
claim submission together with the TIA.
1. Introduction- the Purpose and an Outline.
2. Entitlement to an Extension of Time under the Subcontract.
3. Demonstration of compliance with Conditions Precedent.
4. The Cause of Delay.
5. The Effect of Delay.

6. Delay Analysis Methodology. 7. Delay Analysis Implementation and its Rationale. (Step by step)
8. Sanity Check of Delay Analysis Results.
9. Longest Path Review and Demonstration of Critical Delays.
10. Actions Taken to Avoid or Mitigate the Effects of Delays.
11. Concurrent Delays.
12. Conclusion.
13. Substantiation by Reference to the Project Records.
In order to allow us to assess your entitlement to an Extension of Time and claimed prolongation costs,
you are recommended to revise and resubmit your claim with adequate underpinning substantiation for
the alleged events, including but not limited to, those set out above. The aforementioned sections are
only intended for guidance for time related claims and it should not be construed as final and conclusive
requirements.
Yours truly,
