Subject: Response to the Engineer's letter- Communication Protocol
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor would respond as follows:
The Contractor notes the content and concern of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. Please be
advised that, the Contractor does not accept and has discouraged any direct communication between
any
Subcontractor and the Employer and/or the Engineer. The Contractor shall investigate and discuss with
Guinault-Lebrun Aircraft Power Systems LLC {GL) about this matter, and shall take necessary actions
accordingly.

The Contractor would highlight the following:
• The Contractor does not have a copy of GL's letter reference (3) above to comment on its content,
as it was not enclosed with the Engineer's letter reference (1) above;
• GL's letter reference (4) above is predominantly related to its performance. Please be advised that,
the Employer has retained the liability for the design and performance of GL's scope of works; and
• In accordance with item no.5 of the Engineer's Instruction No. 35C, whereby the Engineer instructed
the Contractor to appoint GL to implement the Pre-Conditioned Air {PCA) Sub-Freeze Equipment
works, the Contractor understands that, there is a form of direct contract/agreement between the
Employer and GL for design and performance warranty. As such, direct communication between the
Employer and GL is expected.
Considering the above, the Contractor is of the opinion that the direct receipt of GL's letter reference {4)
was acceptable to the Employer and the Engineer, as it is related to the direct contract between the
Employer and GL. This is evidenced by not receiving any objections by the Employer and/or the Engineer
for more than six months.
However, based on the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, the Contractor shall investigate these
incidents and take necessary actions to stop any further attempts from GL to communicate directly with
the Employer, even for the matters related to its direct contract with the Employer. The Contractor
requests that, the Engineer will advise the Contractor within a reasonable time, should this is not be the
case.
Yours faithfully,
