Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0103
Engineer’s Response to RFI/0401/16957 - Hardware Installation to Doors with Different Floor
Levels: Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described below
may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works; hence we seek your swift resolution of the same.
The Event(s):
On 19 March 2019 we submitted RFI/0401/16957, together with a list of 55 nos. doors/openings to
various areas of the MTB informing you that we are prevented from installing the remaining door
hardware (specifically stops / thresholds / gasketing) due to differences in floor levels between the
respective rooms, requesting further clarification and resolution of what is in effect a design /IFC issue.
We further advised you that the difference in levels presented building code violations also.
Notwithstanding the fact that we requested a reply by 27 March 2019 and you failed to do so until one
month later on 29 April 2019, your response to RFI/0401/16957 not only failed to address the issues
raised by us, but introduced changes to the design and scope of Works by requesting the provision of
entirely new landings to 3 out of the 55 doors/openings as per the list appended thereto.
Furthermore, your response also stated that: “It is the Contractor’s responsibility to coordinate the
hardware installation with the other trades and submit coordinated shop drawings for review”.
We wish to put on record that your request for us to coordinate the hardware installation with other
trades, is incorrect, misleading and is deviating from the main issue, which is the floor level/elevation

differences at the door/openings mentioned above. This design defect is not related to the doors or
doors hardware, but it is related to the floor elevation differences. Therefore, it is the variance in floor
levels that is preventing us from completing the installation of the final door hardware and not the
coordination with other trades or any other issues related to the doors and/or door hardware.
As stated above the differences of the floor elevation at the door openings, reflect a deficiency in the
existing design / IFC – we have constructed the Works in accordance with that design / IFC Drawings.
However, as noted in RFI/0401/16957 any variance in floor elevations at a door opening is a violation of
IBC 2006 code for this Project; this being the applicable code on this Project. Issue #17 of the Fire
Strategy Report supports this and clearly indicates IBC 2006 as being the applicable code for ‘Doors’ and
also ‘Means of Egress’. The Fire Strategy Report under the Section of ‘Means of Egress’ states:
“A continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and horizontal egress travel from any occupied portion
of a building or structure to an area of safety”.
Furthermore, IBC 2006 Section 1008.1.4 [Floor Elevation] states the following:
“There shall be a floor or landing on each side of a door. Such floor or landing shall be at the same
elevation on each side of the door. Landings shall be level except for exterior landings, which are
permitted to have a slope not to exceed 0.25 unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (2-percent slope)”.
We note that the design of the doors, landings and structure is not within our scope of works. It
remains with the Employer’s Design Consultant. Therefore, since the structural levels have been
approved and the relevant WIRs have been raised and approved for the affected floor elevations at the
areas of the door openings noted above, then the coordination issues you allegedly raised in your
response regarding the door hardware cannot be accepted and are irrelevant to this instance.
We refute your comment that “Hardware on the list can be installed”. We made it patently clear in
RFI/0401/16957 that we are unable to install the remaining hardware (specifically stops / thresholds /
gasketing) due to the direct effect that the variance in floor levels have on this particular hardware.
Your attention is therefore drawn to the attached photos (refer to Annex A hereto) which illustrate the
problem. It is this that we sought your assistance yet you failed to do so, despite our request. This is
delaying installation of the remaining hardware and will invariably impact on completion.
Furthermore, as noted above also, the response to RFI/0401/16957 attempts to introduce changes to
the existing IFC design by requesting the provision of a landing. This requires a valid EI and a VO.
We also put on record, that many of the Status Code 3 comments annotated within the WIR responses
described in our Delay Notice No. 0087 , relate to the floor level differences discussed within this ENotice No. 0103. We therefore reiterate that such comments are without doubt unreasonable and for
the reasons set out and herein and our Delay Notice No. 0087 are without merit .
The SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required. However, on the face of
it, you failed to honour those obligations and an EI and VO are needed for us to proceed with the
required landings. We also suggest that a survey is undertaken to determine the extent of change as
there may be more doors/openings than those listed in RFI/0401/16957, with a floor difference.
We therefore, take this opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause 2.31 of
SAA8 pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to proceed with any Variation until a Variation
Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In which respect, it is your obligation to issue this
Time/Cost Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only after the additional time and/or costs
impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:
We note that the foregoing events and/or circumstances are undeniably delaying the installation of the
door hardware. Consequently, any requirement for additional works, in this case (1) the installation of

landings and/or (2) changes to the door hardware which may need to be re-ordered and installed, (3) a
survey to determine the project wide affect, at such a late stage of the Project, is very likely to impact
upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
It is for this reason therefore, that we issue this E-Notice requesting your prompt action, guidance,
decision or further instruction as may be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to
mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works. This includes without limitation:
1.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within ten (10) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
