Dear Sir,
We refer to the above and the scope defined for the Concrete Screed Works for the Midfield Terminal
Building Project in the signed Subcontract Agreement dated 30 December 2014 with reference
MTB/TCA/PPAINTIN G/L/000007.

We have reviewed our current needs and accordingly we are issue this Variation No. 1 to the Concrete
Screed Works Package for Abu Dhabi International Airport- Midfield Terminal Building Project. Descope
works under this Variation is detailed in the enclosed "Scope of Descope Works" (Attachment 1),
Descoped Amount is included at "Time Cost Report Sheet" (Attachment 2.1), Revised Contract Amount
is updated at "Adjusted Contract Price" (Attachment 2.2), as well as "Variation Details" (Attachment 3)
are enclosed. The terms and conditions of the aforesaid Subcontract Agreement shall also apply to this
Variation No.1 for Descope Works of 100,000m2 of 70mm thick Screed to Floors.
Note: In order to confirm this variation order, please sign and return, (1) this original letter and (2) the
attached duplicate original Time/Cost Record and Adjusted Contract Price Sheets for our signature, in
which fully signed copy will be forwarded to you, then Contract Price will be adjusted accordingly.
On behalf of the TCA JV,
Subject: Omission of Works as per Cl-00310 under Clauses 22.2.4 and 20
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Notices to Correct, identified above, and issued as mentioned ('Notice'). The Notices
required you to make good and remedy the failures identified in the Notices, no later than seven (7)
days after the date of the Notice. You have failed to make good and remedy the failures. On account of
such failure, we now have the right to give notice to you terminating the Subcontract (under Clause
22.2.2(b)), or omit section(s) of the Subcontract Works (under Clause 22.2.4).
We hereby confirm and notify you that we have elected to initially omit the sections of Subcontract
Works as per our letter referenced in (1) above and as identified in Schedules 1 to this Notice, and we
expressly reserve the right to subsequently notify of further omissions of sections of the Subcontract
Works, on account of your failure to comply with the Final Notice identified above.
We will shortly issue you with a Variation Order for the omission of the sections of Subcontract Works
identified herein however please be advised, that the preclusion against the instruction of omitted work
to another contractor does not apply to any work omitted under Clause 22.2.4, following the issuance of
a Notice to Correct. We confirm that, in accordance with Clause 22.2.4, the provisions of Clause 22.3 and
22.5 sha ll apply to the omitted sections.
This notice and the omission of sections of the Subcontract Works are without prejudice to all of our
other rights under the Contract and at law, including our right to instruct further subsequent omissions.
Additionally, please be advised that the following Packages are still within your scope of works therefore
AGCA must continue with their execution without any further delay
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference {1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).

As we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to
give to other contractors.1 You attempt to excuse the Employer from this rule by referring to the
definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e ., that a Variation includes "a) the addition, omission or
substitution of any work or any part thereof' . It appears that you read this provision as permitting the
Engineer to instruct the omission of work for whatever reason it sees fit, including to give to other
contractors. This interpretation is inconsistent with industry understandings of the language, which
considers that this clause only relates to genuine omissions, and not omissions in order for the Employer
to contract that work elsewhere.
We note that Clause 22.2.4 states that where the Employer descopes the Contractor's work for cause,
the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission. [.
. .]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time." Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the
right to omit works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties knew how to
expressly provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer could
omit works for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be
entirely redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1; even more, the Engineer could
avoid the Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission
under Clause 1.1.
You also dispute the proper remedy for this breach. Under UAE law, at the very least, the remedy for
such a breach is the contractor's lost profits and lost overheads. Against this, you refer to BOQ, Schedule
6, Preamble 12 to claim that "[t]he Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads
on the value of any omitted works." For the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours faithfully,
