Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0111 [post-SAA8]
Engineer's Pending Confirmation for Outstanding Doors Issues
Dear Sir,
We write in connection with on-going issues regarding the doors (namely the various discrepancies in
design documents issued by you concerning doors, door hardware and associated systems) and the
numerous correspondences and Requests for Information (RFIs) issued and raised by us over recent
months, including inter alia our letters and RFIs at ref: (1) to (4), and in particular our letter ref: (2).
Specifically, via letter ref: (2) we submitted a comprehensive schedule of doors issues, incorporating all
of the latest comments, documents etc. issued by you relating to a total of 383 nos. of doors which had
not been resolved and remained outstanding. The purpose of doing so was that you were to review this
schedule and use it as the basis to either: confirm, clarify or amend it as necessary, and then return it
back to us [officially] so that it accurately reflected the Employer’s final requirements in relation to all
383 nos. of doors; the design of which remained unclear and/or outstanding. However, despite this
schedule having been issued to you circa five months ago, you have failed to reply.
That said however, we acknowledge that since our letter ref: (2) and accompanying schedule was issued
to you, numerous meetings and workshops have been held between us in an endeavour to resolve the
remaining doors issues and finalize all outstanding matters raised in the letter. During these workshops
we discussed what the final Employer’s requirements are regarding the doors and this revealed that the
technical information/requirements to 152 out of the 383 nos. of doors had changed, compared to the
information/requirements as per the schedule attached to letter ref: (2).
Subsequently to the completion of these workshops, on 9 May 2019, we then raised RFI/0401/17005
ref: (3) above, listing the 152 nos. of doors whose technical information/requirements had changed and
requested that you: (1) confirm the contents of and attachments to this RFI as being correct and (2)
issue the updated Door Schedule and revised IFC Drawings reflecting the Employer’s varied
requirements. However, despite us requesting a reply to RFI/0401/17005 by 9 April 2019 you failed to
respond until 9 May 2019; and moreover, we note that some of the information/requirements to the
152 nos. of doors subject to this RFI had changed yet again. Also despite you advising that the additional
changes and modifications to the affected doors was confirmed via DS/0401/14204 dated 25 April 2019,
we note however, that neither a Door Schedule nor IFC Drawings have been issued.
Notwithstanding the above, we note that the information/requirements for the remaining 231 out of
the 383 nos. of doors have yet to be advised by you as requested via our letter ref: (2). It was for this
reason, and due to incomplete and/or unclear design information, that RFI/0401/17261 ref: (4) was
raised requesting you to clarify and confirm the requirements for the remaining 231 Nos. doors.
We requested that you reply to RFI/0401/17261 by 15 July 2019 and sincerely hope that you do so.

We remind you that the issues subject to our letters ref: (1) and (2) and reiterated above, are directly
attributable to a failure on your part to provide a final fully coordinated and completed IFC [door] design
that accurately reflects the Employer’s requirements, as well as a failure to promptly respond to the
various queries and ambiguities in the existing design as soon as they are identified by us. We therefore,
take this further opportunity to once more request that you provide us with a complete fully designed
and sufficiently detailed IFC set of Drawings in respect of the doors and revised Door Schedule,
accompanied by an Engineer’s Instruction to enable us to complete the door installations.
Meanwhile, we hereby notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 that
the events and circumstances detailed above constitute acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract
on the part of the Employer/Employer’s Personnel/Consultants giving rise of our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10,
or, in the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
