
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and after receipt of a letter from M/S Giffin Traffiks LLC (hereinafter
M/S Giffin), informing us of non-accessibility to their work attributable to your various acts or omissions,
we write to inform you of the disruption being caused by you, to the mentioned Subcontractor.
In view of the above and further to our numerous correspondences in regards to your continual delays,
we regret to inform you that your failure to complete the works without delay and your lack of
coordination is hindering access and affecting the works of other Subcontractors.
Accordingly, pursuant to Clause 16.4.1 (a), (b), (c) [Recovery of Delays] your immediate response is
requested with explicit clarity on:
1.
Providing access to the works for M/S Giffin;
2.
Submitting a revised recovery plan and supporting report describing the methods you propose
to adopt in order to provide access to M/S Giffin;
3.
Proceed with the works in due diligence to ensure earliest completion;
You are therefore, required to immediately reply within (7) seven days of receipt, of this letter.
Your attention is also drawn to Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors]
which includes the following:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the Subcontractor agrees
that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors may
perform work on the Site concurrently with the Subcontract Works”.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
“(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the coordination of the
work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the Subcontract Works including timeframes,
programmes and schedules for completion of the Subcontract Works;”;

“(b) take such actions as are necessary to facilitate the work of the Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors, including providing Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors with access to all
essential services and amenities and any place where work is being carried out or Materials are being
prepared or stored; and”;
“(c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other Contractor or Other
Subcontractor”.
For the purpose of preventing any further unnecessary delays we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to proceed with the works as instructed above and provide
immediate and direct access to other Subcontractors (including but not limited to M/S Giffin).
Consequently, please be informed that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to proceed with the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses
including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractors Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Concluding the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the
construction of the Subcontract Works and coordinate with other Subcontractors to avoid further
progress disruption issues.
The above is for your immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
