
Subject: Submission of Contractor's Claims (HoA) Update 2
Dear Sir,
We refer to our letter dated 3'd August 2016, reference MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/ 008519 in regard to the
'Submissions of Contractor's Claims' pursuant to Heads of Agreement 51 h March 2015 and in respect of
the Subcontractors' Prolongation and Disruption Costs, assessed by TCA JV, and submitted to AECOM
under cover of the updated letters referenced in Schedule 2 Rev 2 dated 9th February 2017 attached
hereto.
The 25 HoA submissions, previously submitted to the Engineer (under the referenced letters listed in
attachment 1) contained but were not limited to the following;
• Narrative report which demonstrated the individual Subcontractors entitlement to additional
payment. Details outlining the Contractor's assessment of the work package Subcontractor's entitlement
to EOT and Prolongation Costs .
• Contractor's review of the time and delay events.
• Subcontractor details i.e. commencement date, critical dates etc.

• Subcontractor's Timelines. Bar charts detailing the summary of entitlement to Extension of Time based
on TCA JV's overall Consolidated Delay Analysis.
• Impacted monthly breakdown of Subcontractors Prolongation Costs.
Attached Schedule 2 Rev 2 provides a breakdown of the 25 subcontractor submissions (includ ing new
letter references of issuance of updated Subcontract Cost submissions) which TCA JV submitted to date
with respect to Subcontractors' updated Prolongation and Disruption Costs in relation to the HoA, and
for which we are still awaiting an Engineer's determination in terms of Clause 23c of the HoA.
Once again, we have not been issued any 'preliminary determination' by the Engineer for any of the
submissions made on behalf of our Subcontractor's Costs to date.
As we have stated in numerous correspondence (MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/006606, 008519 & 009940),
further detailed records of Subcontractors Prolongation and Disruption Costs are available with the
subcontractors themselves for your review and audit. We have proactively requested all the
Subcontractors to comply with providing 'all cost substantiation' for their respective periods of delay,
assessed by TCA JV and submitted as per the attached Schedule 2 Rev 2. Once further. cost
substantiation is provided by our Subcontractor's (on discs) it shall be issued to AECOM at the earliest
opportunity for further audit and review in support of the submissions al ready issued to you under
Schedule 2 Rev 2 attached. As on the 8th February 2017, the revised amount being claimed for
Subcontractors Prolongation and Disruption Costs is AED 1,118,993,852. In relation to TCA JV's separate
Prolongation Claim under the HoA, please note that the initial claim which was submitted under letter
MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/007228 dated 16th March 2016 was revised and resubmitted under letter
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/10096. As on the 8th February 2017, the revised amount being claimed for TCA JV
Prolongation Costs is AED 485,588,379.
Please refer to attachment 4 for the summary of all the related Contractor's claims submitted to AECOM
as on 8th February 2017. We look forward to receipt of AECOM's certification of the costs claimed and
due.
Yours faithfully,
