Subject: Wording for Engineers Instruction Related t o Briefing Packs
Dear Sir;
3 0 1-iAY Z016
We have received your letter referenced MTB-ANEL-TCA-l -3268 dated 1st May 2016 and respond as
follows:
Whilst we acknowledge your concerns pertaining to briefing packs and your assessment that the same
does not form part of your Subcontract Agreement, we write to confirm that this is not an opinion we
share. The Briefing Pack change is that of a variation to your contract and as such is to be valued in
accordance with the Subcontract Conditions.
In response to your letter we shall respond to the points raised respectively:
Item 1 - The subcontract documents indicate what design responsibility lies with ANEL. Any Briefing
Packs
which impact systems designed by ANEl must be checked and accepted by ANEL for full compliance. If
the
sketches do not conform to design intent then this needs raising by ANEL
Item Z - The briefing packs mechanism was created to shortcut and subsequently increase the progress
of
design works, the completed Shop Drawings & Co-Ordination thereof would be officially transmitted to
ARUP whereas they would take complete ownership of the design and subsequently publish the drawing
utilizing their own title block ultimately creating an IFC drawing.
Item 3 -The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed previously.
Item 4- ANEL should write to TCA on this issue separately with substantiation for issuance to the
Engineer
for comments, We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of writing we are
still within the original contract period. Your statement pertaining to 5th March 2015 is therefore
irrelevant.
Item 5 - Our satance remains as previously communicated, however your concerns will be issued to the
employer for hid determination in the matter. Item 6 -Your comments are noted and we await
determination by the employer for his determination in
the matter (Subcontract Agreement Clause 11.4 [Deternination]}.
Item 7 - Critical equipment needs to be procured from signed off sketches as such items are not affected

by coordination. Should ANEL have any specific concerns in relation to t his point then you can issue a
letter reffering to the isolated incident for forwarding to the Engineer.
Item 8 - Noted, see point 7.
Item 9-Noted.
Item 10-Any Claim that is persued by ANEL will include a time impact analysis" showing what e~ect each
event has had on the programme. This exercise will show the effects of the briefing packs and therefore
show the reasonable time incurred. As a matter of course such impacts should be notified and as such a
determination to halt the works should be given by the employer. There is agreement with the Em Ioyer
to
pay for abortive works if the same is incurred through change brought about through Briefing Packs,
hence
significant delays by Briefing Packs should be minimal.
Item 11-See point 10.
Item 12 - Briefing Packs are changes to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict
accordance with the Sub-Contract Clauses/Conditions.
Item 13 - It is not the business of TVA or ANEL to question the internal procedures of the Client.
We would take this opportunity however to remind you of your obligation under the Subcontract to not
delay, defer or suspend any works associated with the works_ For ease of Reference Clause 20.3
(Variation
Procedure)- Sub-Clause 20.3.11;
Clause 20.3/ Sub-Clause 20.3.11
'The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of the Subcontract
Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be affected by the
Value Engineering proposal or proposed variation) whilst the Contractor considers and/or parties discuss
and endeavor to agree the Sub-Contractors Proposal'.
In this instance you are required to implement whatever mitigation measures that are necessary to
recover delays to Briefing Pack changes, be it procurement or construction activities and a like upon
which
you are culpable. Such mitigation measures that you should consider is that of air freight however the
same is by no way limited to just this. For ease of reference;
Clause 16.4.1- Recovery of Delays
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme),
a revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set
out in
Clause 16.3 {Subcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor proposes to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract
Time
for Completion. These revised methods may include increases In the working hours and/or in the
numbers of Subcontractor's Personnel · and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The
Subcontractor shall submit such revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report within seven {7)
Days of the Contractors instruction. The Contractor may, acting reasonably, if it considers the
Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate, instruct the Subcontractor to make such
amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report as it
considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such
amendments
and/or modifications.'
All costs incurred by us with regards to your failure to adhere to your contractual obligations under the

contract will be for your account and in accordance with Clause 10.3.1 of the Subcontract Agreement.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and you will carry out the necessary as a matter
of
urgency. If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact
the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
