Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0223
Damage Caused by Employer’s Other Contractor (DUFIT Interiors LLC) to Previously Installed Ceiling
Panels at CP L1.0 Corridor 2394 Sector 5.23A [Due to Water Leakages] – Request for Engineer’s
Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The information described in Annex A records events associated with delays attributable to damage
caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DUFIT Interiors LLC) to our previously installed Fire Rated
Ceiling located at CP L1.0 Corridor 2394 Sector 5.23A; this will require rectification and accordingly will
require an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact

Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs and videos (appended hereto at Annex B and C) that
collectively serve to evidence damage having been caused to our previously installed Fire Rated Ceiling
(i.e. Gyb-04) at CP Level 1.0 Corridor 2394 Sector 5.23A (Figure 1 refers).
Unfortunately, despite the Fire Rated Ceiling and access panels having been installed, inspected and
effectively handed over by us through the Work Inspection Requested (WIR) process, they have
subsequently been damaged due to water leakages attributable to the activities of the Employer’s Other
Contractor (DUFIT Interiors LLC) while they were executing water leak tests for Tenant’s waterproofing
works (located at CP Level 2.0 Tenant unit RU2-065, which is above Level 1.0 Corridor 2394 Sector
5.23A).
Figure 1 – Damaged Ceiling Panels Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423
In this regard, our subcontractor responsible for installing the ceiling panels (M/s Cloisall), has written
on this event also, notifying us of their right to claim the time and/or cost impacts arising therefrom. A
copy of Cloisall’s email ref: (2), is attached to Annex C hereto for your information and reference.
As noted above, the water leakages have been caused during waterproofing works undertaken by the
Employer’s Other Contractor (DUFIT Interiors LLC). Specifically, the water which had been discharged
during the testing of the waterproofing works (i.e. ‘waterproofing coating material’ applied) executed by
DUFIT Interior LLC to the floor of CP Level 2.0 Tenant unit RU2-065, penetrated the ‘waterproofing
coating material’ and consequently the concrete slab below. It appears that occurred as a result of the
incorrect application of the ‘waterproofing coating material’ applied to the floor (Figure 2 refers)
Figure 2
The penetrated water travelled through the concrete floor slab from CP Level 2.0 Tenant unit RU2-065
to Level 1.0 Corridor 2394 Sector 5.23A, causing the damage to our previously installed ceiling panels.
The resultant damage can clearly be seen from the photos detailed in Figure 1 above.
In support of the various events and circumstances associated with this event, we herewith provide the
following attachments:
1.
Annex A: This narrative providing a ‘Description of the Event’;
2.
Annex B: ‘CD Photos / Videos Reference of the water leakage’; and
3.
Annex C: ‘CD Cloissal’s emails with Photos / Videos of the damage’.
We wish to put on record that the foregoing (i.e. an act of prevention on the part of the Employer’s
Other Contractor] is not of our doing or responsibility, and any rectification / remedial works required to
procure and re-install the damaged ceiling panels, particularly at this stage, will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged services
noted above, will require the issuance of a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid

down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
We remind you that this is not the first time we have written to you on the issue of damage being
caused to our previously installed ceiling panels by Other Contractors, in particular water damage, and
refer you to our E-Notice No. 0186 dated 29 December 2019 (ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/015175).
We therefore urge you to take whatever action is necessary on your part to liaise with the Employer /
Employer’s Other Contractors to prevent any further damage to our previously completed works.
Yours faithfully,
