Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Claim notice of reference 1) and the recent discussions held with the
Engineer’s Assistant on the subject. It was understood that the Engineer’s Assistant is prepared to
accept the Tender Plan of reference 6) subject to the re-submission of same by the Contractor. The
foregoing undertaking is under way by the Contractor who expects to issue the revised Tender Plan to
the EA by end of this week.

Notwithstanding the aforementioned agreement, the Contractor remains duty bound to submit a formal
Claim submission pursuant to Clause 20.1.6 of Volume 3 of the Contract by May 30, 2017. The
Contractor hereby assures the Engineer’s Assistant that Claim Nr. 092 will be revoked immediately
following the approval of the Tender Plan of reference 6) as agreed during the meeting held on May 25,
2017.

For the purposes of such formal Claim submission therefore, and under the foregoing circumstances in
particular the Contractor hereby submits it’s fully detailed claim pursuant to Clause 20.1.6 of Volume 3
of the Contract as follows:

Factual Background:

As previously demonstrated within letter reference 1), a separate ‘sump pump’ system had been
deployed by the Contractor for the dewatering of Provisional Sum Utility works as compared to the
‘deep well’ system that was required for the Lump Sum works in Al Aziziyah station. The factual
background had been captured via letter reference 1) the content of which needs not to be repeated
herein and therefore enclosed as attachment 1 to this letter [Factual Background].

The Contractor considers itself to be properly entitled to payment of the additional costs incurred due to
the non-payment of this particular element of Provisional Sum works. Accordingly, the Contractor
hereby submits to the Engineer and the Engineer’s Assistant full particulars in connection with its
entitlement for payment of the additional costs reasonably and unavoidably incurred (fully detailed
Claim submission pursuant to GC 20.1.6 of Volume 3 of the Contract).

Supporting Particulars re. Quantum and Extension of Time:

The Contractor hereby confirms that no extension of time is being pursued on account of this Claim. The
Contractor is however entitled to payment of QR 162,344.00 (One Hundred Sixty Two thousand Three
Hundred Forty Four only) pursuant to Clause 13.7 [Provisional Sums] and the PS protocol of Appendix 6
to Volume 3 of the Contract as follows:

Sump Pump Dewatering Works pursuant to Clause 13.7 and Appendix 6 of Volume 3 of the Contract.
KOOP Water Management Middle East W.L.L as per quotation ref: 150112-Q-02 and Subcontract Work
Order WKO - 000032 Profit
(4%)

Overheads (2.9%)

Management (2.5%)

Attendances

(2.6%)
QR 144,950

QR 5,798

QR 4,203

QR 3,624

QR 3,769

Total amount claimed (in Qatari Riyals): QR 162,344

Full supporting cost particulars can be found in attachment 2 to this letter [Supporting Particulars]. The
Contractor hereby expressly reserves the right to add to, or delete from, or otherwise amend this Claim
document and the Contractor’s submission of the same is entirely without prejudice to the Contractor’s
rights in any subsequent negotiations, to vary its Claim at any time in any way whatsoever.

Yours faithfully,
