Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0201
Notice of Force Majeure Pursuant to Clause 26.2.1 – Catastrophic Storms and Floods –
10 to 12 January 2020 – Affecting Completion of the MTB
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) requesting an Observation Report following the catastrophic storms and
flooding affecting the MTB from 10 to 12 January 2020, and in accordance with the requirements of
General Conditions of Contract Clause 21.1.2, are obliged to submit this ‘Notice of Force Majeure’
notifying you that we have been prevented from performing our obligations under the Contract.
This letter also serves to notify you in accordance with Clause 27.1.1 pursuant to Clause 16.5.1 (b) (vii)
‘Consequences of Force Majeure’ of our entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion.
Details in support of the events constituting the ‘Force Majeure’ and the obligations [of the Contract],
the performance of which we have been prevented from performing, including details pertaining to: the
basis of the claim; the effects of inclement weather; the date the basis of claim was discovered; and
relevant contract provisions are set out in Annex A hereto; while interim details in support of the
damage caused to our Works and that of our subcontractors is detailed/appended at Annex B hereto.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts relating to the foregoing events and circumstances will
be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
For the avoidance of doubt this notice is in the alternative to our notice under letter reference xxx dated
yyy which sets out our primary position relating to the flooding incident.
ANNEX A
Details of the ‘Force Majeure’ Event and Claim for Delays
Exceptional Event / Basis of Claim

As you know, the UAE, and specifically the Midfield Airport Terminal Building suffered catastrophic
storms and floods between 10 and 12 January 2012, to such extent that the conditions prevailing on Site
at the time (extreme rainstorms and greater than average rainfall) , have caused amongst other things,
extensive flooding and resultant damage in Basement Levels LB2 and LB1, and prevented us from
performing our obligations under the Contract. This will critically delay the Time for Completion.
Despite our efforts and protective measures and those of our subcontractor’s [following the warnings of
the Ministry of Presidential Affairs: National Centre of Meteorology], the exceptional severity and
sustained intensity of rainfall has caused significant damage to our works, materials and equipment.
While we are still in the process of compiling a comprehensive damage report, we herewith provide
interim details of the damage caused to our works and that of our subcontractors in Annex B hereto.
By way of specific examples:
1.
SMITHS DETECTION Letter Dated 16 January 2020 (MTB-SMD-TCAJV-L-0748) states:
“Smith Detection expect to experience damage to [PBSS] equipment in Level B2 due to the ingress of
water that flooded this level as a result of heavy rainfall ….”
2.
PCE JV Letter Dated 19 January 2020 (MTB/PCEJV/L/05775) states:
“The Subcontractor … confirm[s] that the torrential rainfall experienced … has occasioned damage to
the Subcontractor’s works, stores, uninstalled materials, plant and tools.”
3.
MOSART letter Dated 18 January 2020 (MMM/20/MTB/005) states:
“… we would like to inform you that due to bad weather … some areas in CP L0.0 were affected by heavy
flood of water on the installed stone. Mosart attached herewith the damage report along with
photographic evidences and videos of the suffered damage.”
Notably, a marked up layout plan of Level L0.0 attached to Mosart’s letter is annotated with comments
that include the following: “It was observed that water spill or leakage from ceiling is flowing down on
grouted stone flooring tiles which may cause negative effects on the stones (stains) & the grout
discolouration & breakage … Most of this areas are in final stone finishing stage …”
4.
MOSART letter Dated 13 January 2020 (MMM/20/MTB/004) states:
“… we would like to inform you that due to bad weather … all areas in CP LB2 were affected by heavy
flood of water on the installed stone. Mosart attached herewith the damage report along with
photographic evidences and videos of the suffered damage.”
Notably, a marked up layout plan of Level LB.2 attached to Mosart’s letter is annotated with comments
that include the following: “It was observed that the entire stone floor for CP LB2 is submerged in water
due to heavy rains … almost all of the stones are already under final stone status (code 2)… therefore
any damage (stone & grout discolouration & hollow) that may occur on the stones [will be recoverable]
…”
5.
CRISPLANT Letter Dated 19 January 2020 (MTB/CRISPANT/TCA/L/3827) states:
“CRISPLANT is concerned about possible damages [to the Baggage Handling System] arising from the
extreme weather conditions experienced …”
6.
ATLAS SECURITY Letter Dated 14 January 2020(MTB-ATLAS-TCA-L-0542) states:
“… in the early morning hours of … 11 January 2020, the almost totality of the LB.2 floor has been
affected by a massive flood of water.
“From a cursory visual survey of the various LB.2 areas that has been carried out … we can … anticipate
that numerous cameras have been found with evident signs of water seepage and condensation.”
7.
ANEL EMIRATES Letter Dated 20 January 2020 (MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-9266) states:
“On 11 Jan 2020 at around 06:30 hrs it was found that LB2, LB1, L00 and ILSS Area of the CP building
were flooded and water was leaking from multiple places onto various Electrical services including but
not limited to ducts, cable trays, cable tray accessories, supports, FDBs, electrical panels, lighting fixtures
and components, sockets and spur outlets, air aspiration equipment, speakers, detectors, conduits

resulting in damage to our scope of works. Affected areas were energised at the time and this could
have … resulted in severe electrical hazards.”
“ … due to excessive humidity, water vapour and direct contact with excessive flow of water, majority of
the works are under risk of mainly corrosion, short circuit, arc or other water ingress related problems
…”
8.
TCA JV Report dated 13 January 2020: Impact of Rainwater - LB1 & LB2 LET Equipment
This evidences significant damage caused to amongst other things Lift, Elevator and Travellator (LET)
equipment and associated works: i.e. elevator pits; equipment rooms; motors; drives; elevator cabins;
electrical equipment; plus wall/floor finishes.
As noted above, we will continue to obtain further detailed information and damage reports from all
affected parties, including ourselves, and provide these to you as soon as reasonably practicable.
Meanwhile, given the severity of the damage to previously completed / signed-off / approved works
within the MTB as well as uninstalled materials, plant, tools and equipment, evident from the initial
feedback summarised above, the effects arising in consequence of the catastrophic storms and floods
occurring between 10 to 12 January 2020, has delayed and disrupted our activities and those of our
subcontractors, and as such, will delay the Time for Completion.
The specific obligations we have / will be prevented from completing include without limitation:
1.
Electrical Works;
2.
Mechanical Works;
3.
PBSS Works;
4.
Airport Operational Systems;
5.
Floor, Wall and Ceiling Finishes;
6.
HBSS Equipment;
7.
Airport Security Systems;
8.
Lift, Elevator and Travellator Equipment;
9.
Testing and Commissioning of Related Works; and
10.
Subsidence Remediation Works;
Consequently, this Delay Notice No. 0201 serves to: (1) notify you in accordance Clause 21.1.2 of the
General Conditions of Contract, that we have been prevented from performing our obligations under
the Contract; and (2), notifies you of our entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion in
accordance with Clause 27.1.1 pursuant to Clause 16.5.1 (b) (vii) (‘Consequences of Force Majeure’).
Date Basis of Claim Discovered
We consider that the date the basis of claim was discovered is 13 January 2020, represents the date
immediately following the period of severe and sustained rain storms encountered at the MTB.
Contractual Provisions
Our entitlement to and extension of time arises from a cause of delay giving an express entitlement to
an extension of the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (b) (v), pursuant to:
•
Clause 26.4 (‘Consequences of Force Majeure’)
o
In so far as we have been prevented from performing our obligations under the Contract by
reasons of Force Majeure for which a notice is given pursuant to Clause 26.2 and suffered critical delay
as a direct and consequential effect of the same.
o
According to Sub-Clause 26.1.1 under Clause 26.1 ‘Definition of Force Majeure’ refers to an
“exceptional event or circumstance which is beyond a Party’s control, which such Party could not have
reasonably provided for before entering into the Contract, which having arisen, such Party could not
reasonably have avoided or overcome … including catastrophic storms or floods, lighting, tornadoes,
cyclones … provided that for all the risks referred to in this clause 26.1.1 such act or event, in each case:
(a)
Delays, interrupts or renders impossible the affected Party’s performance of its obligations
under the Contract;

(b)
Is beyond the control of the affected Party’ and not due to acts or omissions; and
(c)
Could not have been prevented, avoided or overcome by the affected Party through the
exercise of due diligence.”
Summary
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
ANNEX B
Initial Damage Reports
The following are a selection of some of the initial damage reports raised to date (attached hereto):
1.
SMITHS DETECTION Letter Dated 16 January 2020 (MTB-SMD-TCAJV-L-0748)
2.
PCE JV Letter Dated 19 January 2020 (MTB/PCEJV/L/05775)
3.
MOSART letter Dated 18 January 2020 (MMM/20/MTB/005)
4.
MOSART letter Dated 13 January 2020 (MMM/20/MTB/004)
5.
CRISPLANT Letter Dated 19 January 2020 (MTB/CRISPANT/TCA/L/3827)
6.
ATLAS SECURITY Letter Dated 14 January 2020(MTB-ATLAS-TCA-L-0542)
7.
ANEL EMIRATES Letter Dated 20 January 2020 (MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-9266)
8.
TCA JV Report dated 13 January 2020: Impact of Rainwater - LB1 & LB2 LET Equipment
Yours faithfully,
