Subject :

Re: Re: Delay Notice – Wall Cladding Installation and Scaffolding Dismantling Pier 1

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11523/18 pertaining to your own
delays and respond to your alleged statements as follows.
1.
Your Statement:
“Zone 3: Scaffolding has been dismantled and the work completed.”[sic]
Our Response:
The dismantling should have been completed by 5th November 2017 as per your Completion Schedule.
This delay has impacted our follow-on activities and all related activities. We have sent you several
notifications requesting and reminding you to complete the dismantling of the scaffolding. However,
you have neglected all of our notifications and decided to suspend the works causing delays. Below is an
extract of the agreed date schedule.
2.
Your Statement:
“Zone 1 missing panels: absence of access due to the ongoing flooring works in this area.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. Zone 1 High Level ceiling was completed approximately 3 (Three) years
ago and you have not taken any action to date nor requested any access to these areas. You are hereby
reminded to coordinate your works with Other Subcontractors under Subcontract Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] including the flooring

Subcontractor. Your intention is observed and noted, whereby you use temporary obstructions to
record them as an excuse of your own delays and will not be accepted.
3.
Your Statement:
“Zone 1A the Scaffolding is expected to be dismantled on the 20th of February. [sic]
Our Response:
The dismantling should have been completed by 31st December 2017 as per your Completion Schedule.
This delay has impacted our follow-on activities and all related activities.
Conclusion:
In light of the above explanations, we reiterate our position that the delays caused by you remain
unchanged.
Therefore, we hereby serve you this notification that, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the
like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
