Subject: Failure to proceed with the works

Dear Sir
We refer to the Commercial Meeting held at our Office on Thursday 09 November 2017 and in particular
to your apparent refusal to proceed with the additional works that we have instructed you to implement
(by way of Variation Order Nr. 16) pending agreement upon the related adjustment to the Subcontract
Price.
In this regard it was noted in the Meeting that whilst the adjustment to the Subcontract Price was
previously agreed via [document reference dated] in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85, you now assert
that subsequent events for which you say we are contractually liable, entitle you to a further adjustment
of the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 3,197,094.21 (an increase in the order of approximately
47% over the amount agreed).
Our position is as follows:
(i)
we are entitled at any time prior to the issue of the Performance Certificate to issue instructions
requiring the implementation of Variations with immediate effect [Sub-Clause 20.1.1 of the General
Conditions of Subcontract];
(ii)
we have (pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.2) issued Variation Order Nr. 16 dated [date] instructing
the Variation;
(iii)
you are obliged) to comply with and give immediate effect to all Variations instructed or
confirmed in writing by the Contractor by way of formal Variation Order [Sub-Clause 20.1.3]
(iv)
we are obliged to proceed to agree or determine any adjustment to the Subcontract Price by
reason of the Variation [Sub-Clause 20.3.2];
(v)
Until such time as an appropriate rate or price is agreed or determined, the Contractor shall
determine a provisional rate or price for the purposes of interim payments under Schedule 11 (Payment
Terms).
For the avoidance of any doubt, we consider that:
(a)
we have complied with all of our obligations relating to Variation Order Nr. 16, including
agreement of the adjustment to the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 in respect of
all events occurring up to and including [date of the agreement]; and
(b)
your failure to implement and give immediate effect to Variation Order Nr. 16 puts you in
breach of the Subcontract and renders you liable for any and all damages arising therefrom.
If you consider that you are entitled to further adjustment to the Subcontract Price due to events
occurring after [date of the agreement] then subject to you following the procedure set down in the
Subcontract for Subcontractor’s Claims, we shall agree or determine any further adjustment accordingly.
In the interim, we urge you to address your breach of the Subcontract by implementing Variation Order
Nr. 16 forthwith.
Yours faithfully,
