We refer to our above referenced letter in respect of continued delays to the manufacturing & delivery
of Air Handling Units.
We remain extremely concerned over the lack of commitment that you have shown towards the latest
manufacturing delay of the Central Processor 43 no. LBl Air Handling Units within the the 3'd 200 Days
Look-ahead Schedule and Baseline Programme. We wish to record yet again that the manufacturing &
delivery situation has deteriorated with no units on site as on this date.

It is again clear that the repeated failure by the vendor 'JCI' to comply with earlier assurances to fulfill
the scheduled dates is adversely affecting the Works, which are now in further delay. (having been
deferred from an end date of 25 May to 31 August, 2014).
We would remind you of the absolute importance of the Air Handling Units to the Project and the
'critical path' of same, yet despite this and earlier problems & regular reminders, you have been unable
to provide any assurances
Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- MTB Project
1. Letter of Award (LOA) for Design, Fabrication, Supply and
Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Work Package
dated 23 October 2013
2. Minutes of Rosano Progress Meeting No.18 held on 31 August2014
3. TCAJV email dated 01 September 2014 (by Mr. Abhulimhen Peter)
4. Workshop held on 11 September 2014
Notice of Delay and Lack of Coordination by Rasana Sd/~
~
cf<;z ... ~~74We write with reference to the Letter of Award signed for the Design, Fabrication, Supply
and Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Subcontract Works Package
dated 23 October 2013 and further to Item no.7 of the Minutes of RASANA Progress
Meeting No.18 dated 31 August 2014 which states, inter alia, that "No elevator Shaft
frame in the Piers is complete. RASANA has completed survey works for all lifting beams
on site. ( ... ) RASANA is to coordinate with TCAJV and OTIS site team ... "and the agreed
"sequence of the handover of Elevator Shaft Works", and TCAJV email dated 01
September 2014 which states " ... Currently no shaft frame is complete at site (RASANA

are stepping up efforts to close out the NCR and complete one shaft- EL V 03-22 by next
week)" and the workshop held with you on 11 September 2014 regarding the delays in
your Works and lack of coordination with other trade/s (all referred to above) and the
enclosed "RASANA's MTB PROJECT- ELEVATOR SHAFTS PROGRAM dated 04 September
2014" (enclosed) which shows delays in your Works.
Under Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] your
obligations include:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the
Subcontractor agrees that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently with
the Subcontract Works.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the
coordination of the work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the
Subcontract Works including timeframes, programmes and schedules for completion of
the Subcontract Works;( ... )
(c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other Contractor or
Other Subcontractor ( ... ) . ".
Accordingly, you are hereby requested to coordinate your Works including the design
with Other Subcontractors (including but not limited to Otis) and coordinate the shop
drawings with the Engineer.
Subcontract 12.12.3 further provides that:
"12. 12.3 The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays,
disruptions and costs it may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be
performed by Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with

its obligations pursuant to this clause 12. 12 including but not limited to those interfaces set
out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) ( ... ).The Subcontractor
agrees that it shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply with its obligations
pursuant to this clause 12. 12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for
submission of the tender.
12. 12.4 The Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer,
Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors (or any other contractor, Sub-subcontractor
or supplier) for costs, monies, loss, expense, damage or otherwise, arising out of or in
connection with a breach of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the
Subcontract.".
Furthermore, it is noted that under Subcontract Clause 16.6.1 if you fail to comply with the
approved Subcontract Programme you shall indemnify and hold us harmless against all
damages, costs, losses and expenses incurred by us in connection with your delays.
Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to
comply with clause 16.2 (Subcontract Time for Completion), the Subcontractor shall,
subject to clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims), pay delay damages to the Contractor for
this default.".
Finally, you are hereby instructed to submit site progress reports on a weekly basis which
shall be made available at every weekly meeting. You are also instructed under
Subcontract Clause 16.4.1 to submit us your revised recovery plan and supporting report
describing the revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite your
progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion ..

The above is for your immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
