Subject :

RE: Notice of Claim – CPLB Columns Cladding

Dear Sirs,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (1) responding our delay notice (2) and we write to
clarify few points.
In respect of your confirmation that you intend to claim the additional time and costs associated with
the blasting requirements of the car park columns, we suggest you refer to our letter (4) whereby we
made clear our position vis-à-vis this issue. We record however that your confirmation in the context of
our notice of delay (2) is unnecessary.
We also refute your statement that neither we nor the Engineer could provide a “proper design profile”.
Please be reminded that cladding the columns of the car park link bridges (CPLB) with GRC panels was
your proposal. Such a proposal can only be an acceptable option if it meets the design intent set out for
these columns in the IFC Documents. In other words, if you elect to change the columns’ built-up to
better suit your construction methodology, you must also remain responsible for ensuring that your
proposal adheres to the Employer’s design intent.
With the calculations approved since August 2018 and the surface model for this area issued to you back
in 2015, you could have issued your concept drawings within three weeks from obtaining consent for
the calculations. Yet, these drawings did not materialise until 29 December 2018.
We believe that you have been encountering problems with the preparation of your shop drawings and
that you are attempting to deflect the poor performance of your technical office. We do not accept your
statement that “a lot of time and effort” was required to provide “the right design” and be reminded
that the delay being incurred by you in producing these shop drawings was subject of a previous delay
notification. Please refer to letter (3) which is self-explanatory.
In relation to your request that we expedite the approval of the drawings submitted on 29 December
2018, we note that these documents were issued without accompanying fabrication drawings or steel
models. Hence, any attempts to expedite their approval are likely to be unsuccessful.
Finally, we regret your advice that you envisage completion for these works “no earlier than 31 March
2019”. This is contravention of the programme agreed in October 2018 which planned completion for
these works by 15 January 2019. We confirm that our delay notice reference (2) remains valid and that
all our rights under the LOA are reserved.
Yours faithfully,
