Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0264
Damages to Previously Completed Works by the Employer’s Landscape Contractor
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The information described in Annex A hereto, records various damage having been caused to our
completed Works by the Employer’s Landscape Contractor (M/s Al Barari) which will require
rectification and as such will necessitate that you issue us an Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order
in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We wish to convey our appreciable concern regarding various damage that has recently been caused to
our completed Works by the activities and / or actions of the Employer’s Landscape Contractor (M/s Al
Barari).
Below are a series of photographs which collectively serve to evidence the damage that has so far been
caused to previously completed pedestrian walkways, gutter drains, tarmac, and block paving to various
areas in the immediate proximity of the Terminal Building, as well as conduit / irrigation piping to at
least three individual locations; all damage occurred to the L0.0 external landside area zone 3 (Figure 1
to Figure 5 below, refers):
Figure 1

We note that heavy equipment such as the truck shown in Figure 1 above, has been used by Al Barari on
the existing pedestrian walkways and gutter drains, which we note has been designed to be used only by
light-weight equipment. Moreover, as you can see from the photos, various oil leaks have also occurred
which are clearly due to the actions and activities of Al Barari. The above photos also evidence sporadic

damage that has been caused to irrigation pipes and conduits, as well as an existing air valve. In which
respect, we record that we received not prior notification from you or Al Al Barari as to their planned
intentions, nor have we been requested by you / Al Barari to issue a No-Objection-Certificate (NOC),
allowing them access to areas of the MTB Works; in short no attempt has been made by you as the
Engineer for the Project, to instigate and carry out any coordination in and between ourselves and the
Employer’s Landscape Contractor (M/s Al Barari).
It is evidently clear that the resultant damages caused by Al Barari to our completed Works is not of our
doing or responsibility, and any rectification / remedial works necessarily required, will invariably delay
us.
As you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required
and on the basis that the necessary repairs to the pedestrian walkways, gutters, block paving, conduits
etc., will put us to additional expense [and time] and we therefore request that you issue us a Variation
Order / Engineer’s Instruction as necessarily required, in order for us to undertake the remedial work
and be paid accordingly.
We would also urge you to take whatever necessary action is required on your part to prevent any
further occurrence of damages to our previously completed Works by the Employer’s Landscape
Contractor.
Yours faithfully,
