
Subject : Extension of Time and Prolongation Claim
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Subcontractor's above captioned letter 4 received on 21
September 2015, containing Subcontractor's claim submission for Extension of Time & Prolongation Cost
("the Claim").
The Contractor also confirms that it has been and continues to be available to discuss the Claim with the
Subcontractor in an amicable manner.
The Contractor clarifies that the information provided herein is given on a "without prejudice" basis and
is not to be construed as a waiver of or a limitation to any of the Contractor's rights under the
Subcontract.
The Contractor has conducted a fair review for entitlement, merit and quantum of the Claim and
comments as follows:
a. The Claim is not compliant with the Terms of Conditions of the Subcontract:
The Subcontractor has identified the relevant provisions of the Subcontract under which it brings the
Claim as Sub-Clauses 7.3 [Extension of Time] and 10.4 [Right to Claim] of the Subcontract.
It is the Contractor's position that the Claim is not in line with the both the Subcontractor's related
notification and submission obligations prescribed in 10.3 [Early Warning] of the Subcontract.
Accordingly, the Contractor is discharged from liability in connection with the Claim.
b. The Subcontractor has not demonstrated entitlement:
Notwithstanding the matter of fact described in section (a) above which would allow the Contractor to
dismiss the Claim outright, the Contractor confirms it has conducted a thorough review of the Claim,
going past the confirmation of non-compliance with the Subcontract. The Contractor has proceeded in
such manner, with the genuine intention of ascertaining any merit and factual entitlements that the
Subcontractor may have, in good faith. The Contractor describes its observations below and in the

Appendix hereto; however these are not restrictive or exhaustive in any manner. The Contractor
reminds that the onus to prove rests with the Subcontractor and that this has not been attained.
The Contractor confirms that the Claim is not properly demonstrating entitlement to Extension of Time
and Prolongation Cost.
The Subcontractor's basic position is that the events and circumstances which were beyond the Time for
Completion, were inevitable, unforeseeable, unintentional and beyond the reasonable control of the
Subcontractor. The Subcontractor then seeks an Extension of Time of 159 days and a total of QAR
10,381 ,480.44.
The Subcontractor appears to contend that any and all delay in the Subcontract Works is excusable and
compensable to it. This is simply incorrect. The Subcontractor is not identifying any of its culpable delays
and the Subcontractor is not presenting any "concurrent" delays. The Contractor states that culpability
and concurrency are indeed matters of importance as they serve as indicators of entitlement to time or
time with associated indirect costs.
In general; any industry standard delay analysis would demonstrate that any delay that may be
excusable to the Subcontractor is concurrent with Subcontractor's own non-excusable delays; therefore
negating Subcontractor's entitlement for compensation of costs. The fact is, the Subcontractor has not
timely attained the conditions precedent as per Subcontract and has abandoned the Subcontract Works,
in breach of the Subcontract. However, the Subcontractor appears to contend that any and all delay in
the Subcontract Works is excusable and compensable to it. This is simply incorrect.
In light of the foregoing, the Contractor confirms that entitlement to Extension of Time & Prolongation
Cost has not been demonstrated by the Subcontractor.
c. The quantum of the submission is unsupported and inflated:
The Subcontractor appears to allege that it is to be excused and it is to be compensated indirect and
direct costs for any and all delay in the Subcontract Works.
The Contractor briefly notes that compensability applies to excusable and non-concurrent delay.
Provided that the Subcontractor demonstrates such compensability, then:
c.1 Prolongation costs do not cover alleged direct (manpower) costs and do not cover alleged disruption
costs;
This is notice under Sub-Clauses 7.3 (Extension of Time) and 10.4 (Right to Claim) that the Contractor
disapproves the Claim and gives detailed comments as attached.
The Contractor considers the issue closed and expressly reserves its rights under the Subcontract in
relation to the Claim and the Subcontract Works.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
1. Refer to the Subcontractor's claim submission submitted on 21't September 2015 under letter
reference 4) (the "Claim"). The Contractor gives notice under the referenced Subcontract
Agreement clause 10.5 [Variation and Claim Procedure] that the Claim is disapproved. The
detailed comments ofthe Contractor are given below.
2. In these detailed comments, unless stated otherwise:
(a) words and expressions used have the definitions assigned to them in the Subcontract;
(b) references to paragraphs and pages are references to paragraphs and pages in the Claim
referenced above.
3. The Contractor disapproves the Claim on the basis of entitlement under the Subcontract due
to the fact that the Claim is not compliant with the Terms of Conditions of the Subcontract.
4. The Subcontractor did not clearly demonstrate "cause and effect", for this is a re-measurable
Subcontract, in relation to the Claim events and did not provide supporting evidence and
documentation in respect of the Claim including planned and actual schedules of work. The
Subcontractor did not discuss its duty to interface with other subcontractors, did not
demonstrate productivity effectiveness and did not include for its obligation to have

accommodated the schedule of works being varied time to time by the Contractor. The
Subcontractor made no reference to the fact that it abandoned the Subcontract Works, in
breach of its Contractual obligations.
5. The Contractor has numerous observations relating to the methodology adopted by
Subcontractor for its cost calculations; however, the Contractor will not fully detail these in the
absence of contractual compliance and merit as aforementioned. Notwithstanding the
contractual non-compliances and the issues concerning entitlement, the Contractor reviewed
the quantum of Subcontractor's submission for reference purposes only; the Contractor
confirms it does not agree with Subcontractor's ca lculations.
DETAILED RESPONSE
6. The statement in the second paragraph of the Subcontractor's Claim on page 1, that the
Subcontractor received the Letter of Intent (LOI) on the 3'd November 2014 is incorrect,
because the LOI was received and signed by the Subcontractor on the 20th October 2014 and
the offer and acceptance were completed. Furthermore, although the Subcontract Agreement
was issued to the Subcontractor on the 18th February 2015, the Subcontractor was well familiar
and well aware of the Subcontract Agreement since the documents were signed by the
Subcontractor on the 3'd December 2014 and submitted on February 2015 without any
amendments.
7. The Subcontractor has successfully completed the pt Milestone but fa iled to achieve the 2"d
Milestone per Schedule 1 Subclause 4.5 due to Subcontractor's culpable delays. The alleged
events and circumstances described in the Subcontractor's Claim do not give any reasonable
grounds for excusable delay and were never notified to the Contractor. It is also noted that the
programme submitted by the Subcontractor is not matching that of the Subcontract and
therefore the resulting 159 days that are claimed by the Subcontractor have not been
demonstrated by means of Time Impact Analysis with reference to the Subcontract.
8. In view of the above and pursuant clause 10.3 [Early Warning] "A Party shall notify the other as
soon he is aware of any circumstance which may delay or disrupt the Subcontract Works, or
which may give rise to a claim for additional payment. The Subcontractor shall take all
reasonable steps to minimize these effects. The Subcontractor must notify the Contractor no
more than 7 (seven) days after a delay or disruption event is considered to have occurred, and
he must provide details within 14 days of such notice". Furthermore, it is a prerequisite under
the Contract that an entitlement to Extension of time for Completion under the Clauses 7.3
[Extension of time] and 10.4 [Right to Claim], as mentioned above and pursuant Clause 10.3
[Early Warning] the Party shall notify the other as soon as practicable and no more than 7 days
after the Party became aware or should have become aware. The Subcontractor has not given
any notification for claim or any circumstances that delayed the Subcontract Works.
Nevertheless, the Contractor never received any such notification from the Subcontractor as
required under the Subcontract Agreement.
9. In continuation to the above the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor in page 2 paragraph
3 made reference to Clause 12.1 [Default by Subcontractor] ofthe Subcontract Conditions.
10. For the reasons set out herein the Contractor considers that the Subcontractor is not entitled
to any reimbursement for the alleged prolongation costs. The Subcontractor was informed with
letter reference 1) and 2) that the Subcontract Works continued to fall behind progress
pursuant to Clause 7.4 [Late Completion] and failed to complete Milestone 2. The
Subcontractor had not taken into account the entirety of the comments raised by the
Contractor resulting to Default by the Subcontractor.
11. The section of the Subcontractor's Claim titled "General Provisions" (GP) and "Contract
Particulars" (CP) are not in line with the Subcontract Agreement.

12. The Subcontract is a re-measureable contract and not a lump sum as alleged in page 8 of the
Claim.
13. The Statement that the Subcontractor has encountered delays due to non-availability oftimely
permits is nonspecific and cannot be accepted. The Contractor brings to the Subcontractor's
attention that pursuant to Clause 1.4.7 Schedule 1 [Documentation Management and Permits]
"The Subcontractor shall provide all documents and assistance to the Contractor to apply and
secure all relevant/ necessary Road Permits [ ... ].The Contractor shall lead the permit process,
complete application form submit and follow through the process until all permits necessary are
issued and received. The Subcontractor is responsible to provide accurate and timely
information required for the process to avoid delays." The Contractor has at all times acted
proactively and without delay in providing all relevant permits and no work was affected by any
permit.
14. In page 10 and 16 the Subcontractor states that it has not received timely payments. This is not
accurate because the Subcontractor failed to provide in a timely manner, a Performance
Security per Clause 4.5 [Performance Security] and the Appendix to the Subcontract. The
Subcontractor's late submission of the Performance Bond was submitted with letter reference
3) on the g th March 2015 which was a submission later than the required date. The Contractor
exercised its right under Clause 4.5 which states that "Failure to provide the required and
complying Performance Bond will give the Contractor cause for non-payment of progress
payments".
15. The Subcontractor appears to allege in the last paragraph of page 10, that it encountered
delays and that it is to be excused and compensated indirect and direct costs for any and all
delay in the Subcontract Works due to lack of proper sequence of work. Furthermore pursuant
to Clause 7.2 [Programme], there was no "planned" Subcontractor's schedule, since the
Subcontractor failed to provide any programme for the Subcontract Works as required under Clause 7.2
ofthe Subcontract. This resulted to insufficient coordination and monitoring ofthe
Subcontract Works. However, the Subcontractor has a duty to coordinate and interface with
the Contractor, other Subcontractors and with the Works in general pursuant to Schedule 1
Clause 2 [Contractor and Subcontractor Responsibilities].
The Contractor considers that any delays of the alleged events were:
a) Avoidable, in whole or in part; and
b) Wholly exclusively caused by the Subcontractor's own acts and omissions including but not
limited to the Subcontractor's failure to comply with the requirements of the Subcontract
Agreement.
16. Subcontractor's allegation that the Contractor has misrepresented and misled the
Subcontractor by leaving only hard limestone to be excavated by the Subcontractor and that it
had a delay impact is rejected. The reason for this is that, Red co is an experience Subcontractor
who is well familiar with the conditions of the Substrata in Doha. Further, under Clause 4.1
[General Obligations] "The Subcontractor when tendering, is deemed to have taken into account
all of the existing available data as well as that made available by the Contractor including all
existing data from research or studies executed as well as relevant investigations/information
which may be available through agencies and organizations etc. in Doha[ ... )". In addition Clause
4.1 continues with: "Notwithstanding any information which may be contained in the
documents and drawings supplied by or on behalf of the Contractor, the Subcontractor will be
deemed to have made independent inquiries before tendering as to the nature of the work, and
local and other conditions and obtained information on all matters that moy in any way affect
the rates and prices making up the Subcontract Price". ln addition Schedule 2 of the Subcontract
Agreement contains the Bill of Quantities (BoQ) with all the estimated quantities and scope of

work. Therefore, the Contractor notes that the scope of the Subcontract Works is properly
represented and included in the Subcontract Agreement.
17. The Contractor further notes the provision of Clause 4.1, mentioned above, that the
Subcontractor is deemed to make independent enquiries and obtain information on all matters.
In addition, the signed BoQ Schedule 2 Sub-Clause 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 all quantities are
approximate and they are subject tore-measure on actual measurement of works on site.
18. The Contractor disagrees with the Subcontractor's statement that the Works methodology was
poorly designed and reiterates that the overall Works methodology and sequence was agreed
between the two Parties, per Schedule 1 and 2 of the Subcontract Agreement.
19. The Subcontractor appears to allege that it is to be excused for purported disruption caused
by design Works. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has failed to submit any Site
daily records throughout the period of performance of the Subcontract Works per Sub-Clause
1.4.6 of Schedule 1. Additionally, pursuant to Sub-clause 2.7 of Schedule 2 [Standstill periods
and idle time] "The Subcontractor shall only be due payment for standstill or idle time where
agreed in writing with the Contractor". This is coupled with the lack of any documents or
records to substantiate any idle time or any circumstances that may have disrupted the
Subcontract Works. Due to the lack of records and insufficient information by the
Subcontractor, the Contractor rejects any idling time. Furthermore, it is noted that claiming for
idling time is not accepted to be part of a prolongation cost, as such claims are not to overlap.
20. The dimensions mentioned do not match with the Specification and have not been considered
in any ofthe official Subcontractor's submissions.
21. Due to the failure of the Subcontractor to complete the Subcontract works, per Clause 7.4 [Late
Completion] and Schedule 1 Sub-Clause 1.3(k), the Contractor was compelled to complete the
Subcontract Works with its own additional resources. The Subcontractor was informed with letter
reference 1) and 2) that the Contractor has incurred loss, damage and expense for which
it reserves its rights.
22. In addition to the above the Contractor also notes Sub-Clause 3 [Specification of Works]
Schedule 1 of the Subcontract Agreement, that "the works shall be in accordance with Q-Rail
Specifications, International standards, Contractor's site investigation reports, policies and
method statements, QCS 2010 (or most updated and issued version in force at the time of
duration of the Subcontract Works) and to the tolerances included in such standards and the
Subcontractor is deemed to have included all relevant items within his Subcontract Price".
23. The statement that the procurement of diesel was very difficult without a subcontract in place
is not accepted due to the fact that the LOI was received by the Subcontractor on the 20th
October 2014. Moreover per Sub-Clause 2.5.3 Schedule 2 the Contractor may supply diesel in
an emergency to avoid any works being delayed. In fact, the Contractor has provided fuel to
the Subcontractor as an interim arrangement during the mobilization period. Later on, the
Subcontractor however, never notified the Contractor for any further difficulties encountered
in diesel procurement during the Subcontract Works.
24. The Subcontractor's delay analysis and the programme are not an approved programme by the
Contractor, do not contain any resources, and do not demonstrate non-concurrent excusable
delays, thus are disapproved. Additionally, per Clause 7.2 [Programme], the Subcontractor
failed to provide a programme within the time stated in the Appendix. This resulted to
insufficient coordination and monitoring of the works as mentioned previously and led to the
Contractor finishing the works.
25. The Subcontractor pursuant to Clause 12.1 [Default by Subcontractor] is in a breach of the
Subcontract since it failed to prosecute the Subcontract Works diligently and to comply with
Contractor's requests to rectify the Subcontract Works as issued with reference letters 1) and

2) and since no practicable steps were taken to remedy Subcontractor's default resulting to
delaying the Subcontract Works.
26. The Subcontractor has abandoned the Subcontract Works on the 29th March 2015 without
completing, resulting to a breach of Contract causing to the Contractor to incur additional cost
and expense to complete the Subcontract Works. Therefore, due to the aforementioned, the
Subcontractor is not eligible for any prolongation cost, remains responsible for its failure to
comply with the provisions and obligations of the Subcontract.

Yours faithfully,
