Subject: Final Account
We strongly disagree with the deductions applied in the Final Account, particularly for the (a)
“Deduction Due to Penalty for Delay” and (b)“Deduction for Consultancy Fees”.

(a) In regards to “Deduction Due to Penalty for Delay”, we note that Clause 3 of the Subcontract Order
(SO) states the following:
“Completion: As per our Site requirement.
If the Subcontractor fails to achieve the milestone on the due date, Subcontractor shall pay QAR.
8,000/day penalty…”
We note that the SO does not provide a completion date and no milestone or programme of works have
been provided by the Contractor. Therefore, it is not clear what is the basis of the 14 days of delay used
to calculate the delay damages. Nonetheless, we put on record that there are no Subcontractor’s delays.
For this reason, we refute and disagree with the deduction and thus we request that is removed from
the final account calculation.
(b) Cconcerning the “Deduction for Consultancy Fees”, the Contractor appears to deduct AED
280,000.00 for 14 days of Consultancy Fee as per Clause 8.7 & 14.5 of the Main Contract. We put on
record that we have never been provided with the Main Contract documents and thus the Contractor
cannot use the Main Contract Clauses to pursue a claim for a breach of the Subcontractor’s obligations.
In addition, it appears that the Contractor relies on a “deemed knowledge” basis on the part of the
Subcontractor, when in fact the Subcontractor cannot be deemed to have knowledge of a breach of the
Main Contract since the Main Contract was never provided to the Subcontractor.
Notwithstanding, without prejudice to our rights, we note that any deductions to be applied or accepted
must be fully substantiated by the Contractor.
Lastly, we have already stated our position regarding the termination via our letter ADMC-LTR-20210001 dated 06 January 2021, and reiterate that our termination is unjustified, and it is for this reason
that we shall be seeking to claim for recovery of overheads, and loss of profit.
Yours faithfully,
