
Subject As-Built Drawing Submissions
Dear Sir,
We refer to our recent discussions regarding the quality of your submitted as-built documentation. The
'as-built' drawing files indicate that the drawings in their native format are not in compliance with ADAC
CAD Manual Rev 4.
In order for you to understand the severity of this non-compliance, we have attached examples of the
issues identified. Although these are findings from our cursory review, it is likely that these
noncompliant
practices will be more widespread across all packages and so you will need to validate with
your subcontractors.
In summary, the main issues are:
1. The CAD file received should be a bound drawing with all the xrefs contained in it.
2. TCA-JV's dwg is an exploded version hence the inconsistencies in the layers, dimensions, colors,
text styles etc.
3. There is no consistency in how the trade drawings (steel, concrete, and also architecture) are

formatted.
We also note that t he verification stamp is required to have an actual date of submission inserted as
part
of your approved verification stamp.
We have also checked on the dimensions and positioning of major structural openings, and found t hat
t here are discrepancies between information on your 'as-built' drawings and the actual site survey
coordinates. This disparity in the information presented indicates that your information management
procedures may be inadequate.
In terms of how you prepare 'as-built' drawings we would again remind you that your deliberate failure
to use the project BIM as the repository of Project information will only result in further uncoordinated
and therefore rejected submittals. It is again suggested that you review and revise your procedure to
improve the quality and accuracy of your project records.
You have also been reminded of your obligation under Specification Section 01 33 00 to formally provide
a submittal register with the proposed submittal dates for your 'as-built' drawings. This request remains
open with you.
Whilst you have maintained that you are validating the quality control of submitted documentation, it is
clearly evident that your system has failed in the preparation and review of 'as-built' documentation.
For the avoidance of doubt and to curtail any potential deflection of your responsibility, the Engineer's
review of your submittals does not relieve you of your obligations to comply under the Contract in the
preparation, accuracy and quality of the Works.
In summary, your 'as-built' drawings are not in compliance with the Contract requirements nor the
works on site and we have therefore rejected these 'as-built' submittals.
Yours faithfully,
