Subject: Notice of Delay- Open Work Fronts for Electrical Activities in CSP area
Dear Sir,
We write in connection with the above subject and to notify you that we are alarmed regarding your
delays and lack of progress at site. It is evident to us that the root causes for the delayed works are due
to insufficient man power and lack of site supervision in CSP area although you have massive amount of
open work fronts. (Refer to Appendix-1)
We are extremely concerned with ANEL's apparent continued inability to proceed with the following
works at certain locations:'in this instance, you are instructed to take such steps (i.e. allocating adequate
manpower to the available open works fronts) to improve your progress, at no additional cost to us, and
advise your actions as a matter of urgency. The below table indicates the actual manpower distribution
in the CSP area between month of May 2017 and month of July 2017 on a level basis which was
reported during the DART meeting. It is clear from the above table, 38% of manpower has been reduced
during the past 3 months. We record that your action to reduce the manpower at this time of the
project is totally unacceptable as it has caused further irrecoverable delays to the project.

The wordings of Sub-Clause 16.5.3 (b) is clear in respect of ANEL's 'express' responsibility to mitigate the
delays and the consequence if it fails to do so. We urge you to start taking mitigation measures to
recover your own delays. Failure to do so, the related delays measured during the periods where you
have not allocated adequate manpower will be deemed as Subcontractor culpable delays. ·
Notwithstanding the above, you are hereby directed to demonstrate the actions and recovery measures
required to be implemented by ANEL to mitigate the current shortfalls within 7 days from the receipt of
this letter.
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities shall be solely your
responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12, 16.6 and 10.3.
Yours faithfully,
