Subject:
EI-788 Fabrication and Erection of ACP Cladding Mock-Up Test Assemblies; VO No. 386 –
Delayed Approval of Mock Up Shop Drawings

Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letter ref: (1) recording the chronology of events associated with the issuance of our
Shop Drawings following receipt of EI No. 788 (ref: 2), and your subsequent e-mails refs: (3) and (4).
Notably your e-mail dated 27 April 2020 (ref: 4) advised us that our Shop Drawings are fully approved,
however, despite us expressly stating in our letter ref (1) that we “request you to confirm by return your
approval [for us] to proceed with fabrication and installation of the Pier Test Mock-Up assemblies based
on the ... shop drawings” on the understanding that you would return the officially approved shop
drawings when doing so [confirming for us to proceed], you have failed to do so.
It is unreasonable that the cumulative reviewing duration of our Shop Drawings submittal exceeds 3.5
months while the subject submittal is classified to be on fast track process. Refer to Annex A for the
details of reviewer durations and note that this attachment has been updated and sent to you on a
weekly basis. We remind you that the Contract expressly stipulates the review periods by which you are
contractually obligated to review and return Submittals. On the basis that our Shop Drawings are Rev.
01, then these should have been returned within 14 calendar days from the date of being submitted, i.e.
5 March 2020, on the basis they were submitted for your review on 20 February 2020. The review
period applies irrespective of the Shop Drawing having been submitted via e-mail and irrespective of any
perceived failure on our part to submit them in a timely manner; which is denied.
Given your failure to confirm approval for us to proceed with fabrication, we hereby notify you that we
have put on hold all works related to EI-No. 788. We therefore request that you provide us with an
official confirmation of your approval to proceed as well as issue us the officially approved Shop
Drawings.
In the meantime, we hereby give notice, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and
27.1.1, that the above noted failures constitutes acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract on the
part of the Employer’s Personnel and/or Consultants, which accordingly entitles us to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.1 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
Interim / final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this event
will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
