
Dear Sir,
This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute
a variation. The nature and extent of the variation is provided below. The fo l owi ng Employer's Requi
rement:

Volume 6, Section 13, Figure E1: Station Power Systems Block Diagram - Scope Demarcation to be
deleted.

Volume 6, Section 13, Sub-section 13.3.4.4 (f}: Stand-by Diesel Generators - to be deleted.

Volume 6, Section 14 (Electrical & Mechanical Room Requirements) - are to be amended to remove
Diesel Generators and Tanks as follows:

Figure E.1: Station Power Systems Block Diagram - Scope Demarcation - to be added.

Diesel Generators and Tanks are deleted from the metro stations as Qatar Rail's multiple redundancies
in the power supply system are by means of two Station Power Supply Substations (SPS) at either site of
a metro station. At this level there is 100% SPS redundancy. If SPS 1 fails, SPS 2 can provide the full load.
The room allocation for the Diesel Generators (70 m2) is to remain for Systems use. The room allocation
for
Diesel Tanks (30 m2) is to be utilized by the Civil Works Contractors.
Dear Sir,

N/A

This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute a variation. The nature and extent of the var iation is provided below.

The followi ng Employer's Requirement:

Volume 6, Employer's Requirements - Section 13, Item 13.3.3.12 Elevators, Escalators and Autowalks a) Design Philosophy (iii).

Autowalks shall be provided for the horizontal movement of passengers in the pedestrian tunnels,
where people need to walk long distances. Autowalks shall be provided for pedestrian bridges exceeding
40m length and that lead to station's remote entrances.

is amended as follows:

Autowalks shall be provided for the horizontal movement of passengers in the pedestrian tunnels,
where people need to walk long distances. Autowalks shall be provided for pedestrian bridges and
underpasses exceeding 100m length that lead to station's remote entrances. For bridges and
underpasses between 40m and 100m in length the Contractor shall consider the maximum walking
distance to the station, the catchment area of the station and the passenger numbers when deciding if
an autowalk is required, and if there is not a requirement for an autowalk the contractor shall make
passive provisions in the bridge/underpass structure to allow for the future installation of an autowalk.
The runoff at either end of an autowalk shall be 6m, and if two or more autowalks are used in a
structure the distance between them shall be minimum 12m .
Volume 6, Employer's Requirements - Section 13, Item 13.3.3.12 Elevators, Escalators and Autowalks e) Autowalks (i).
A complete set of autowaks shall be provided to serve both directions and their length shall vary
between 18 to 30m. is amended as follows:
A complete set of autowaks shall be provided to serve both directions and their length shall vary
between 18 to 50m.
Yours faithfully,
