Subject:Additional Fire Life Safety Devices Required by House of Expertise
Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO)

Dear Sir
We refer to our letter ref (1) in which we advised you of numerous additional Fire Life Safety (FLS)
devices (e.g. Smoke Detectors, Strobes, Horn Strobes, Manual Call Points, Fire Telephone Jacks,
Speakers, Heat Detectors, Exit and Emergency Lights), being introduced into the Works either by way of
comments on our Shop Drawings and / or during meetings and site inspections by the House of
Expertise (HOE), that are not shown upon IFC Drawings, or have been previously subject to Briefing
Packs/Engineer’s Instructions.
Attached to letter ref: (1) were various schedules reflecting the additional devices required to Pier 1 and
3, and various areas of the Central Processor. A copy of our letter is attached for reference.
Given the fact that the various additional FLS devices reflected upon the schedules attached to our letter
ref: (1) represent substantial changes to our scope of Works, we requested that you issue an Engineer’s
Instruction / Variation Order in confirmation of the Employer’s additional requirements. It is however,
disappointing to note that since our letter was raised, no such EI / VO have been issued.
Nevertheless, we write to advise you of further additional devices that are required to be integrated into
the Works by the HOE beyond those previously advised, and herewith attach a further set of four (4)
additional schedules, plus summary (reproduced in Table 1 below), recording a total of 311 additional
devices required to the Central Processor Area, Pier 1 and 4, Pier 2, and Pier 3.
Table 1 – Additional FLS Devices
Given that these devices represent change to the FLS design and are additional to our Contract scope,
we again urge you to provide us with the necessary Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order, so that
not only can we administer this change, but that we are reimbursed for the additional costs.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this letter.
We also record that all related shop drawings (code-1 approval for civil defence) have been reviewed by
the Employer’s House of Expertise (HOE) a minimum of 2 times and some of the comments have been
conveyed in different revision of the shop drawings. We therefore does not expect any further
comments asking for additional FLS devices on Civil Defence drawings, MCIs (Mechanical Completion
Inspections) and/or during BCC HOE/AHJ site walks. We remind you that receiving new comments may
potentially cause delay and/or disrupt the progress of the Works such as Construction activities, Testing
and Commissioning, As-built submissions and BCC (Building Completion Certificate).
In view of the foregoing, all our rights under the Conditions of Contract Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 to an
extension of time and the payment of any associated additional costs are hereby reserved.
Yours faithfully,
