Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0280
Delays due to Modifications and Damage to Previously Constructed Works to Pier 3 Rooms near GH 36
by the Employer’s Other Contractor – Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in
Order to Rectify Damaged Works – Request for Cancellation of Unreasonable Commented NCR-01529
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto, concern delays associated with modifications and damage to
our Works in Pier 3 Rooms near GH 36 by the Employer’s Other Contractor which requires rectification
and as such requires the issuance of an EI and VO in order for us to do so. We also urge you to close out
NCR-01529 on the basis your comments are unreasonable and not applicable to the matter at hand.

Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
In or about May 2019, we handed over a series of rooms located at Pier 3 Rooms Near GH 36, broadly
consisting of: ADAS BTW Central Centre; Ramp Management Centre; Corridor; Deployment Office; Ramp
Operations – General Office; Conference Meeting Room; and Emergency Shower; the Works within
which were all signed off and agreed by you as being accepted and fit for purpose. These same rooms
and areas were then handed over and occupied by one of the Employer’s Third-Party Contractors
(Etihad).
Sometime later however, on 31 December 2019, we received Non-Conformance Report (NCR) 01529
(ref: 1) in which, with reference to Site Memo No. 03380 (issued in relation to Pier 4), you alleged that
we were somehow responsible for the damage caused by rain water/grouting fluid to our previously
installed carpets, painting and other internal finishes (including MEP works) due to heavy rainwater
infiltration. You further alleged that this was due to a purported failure on our part to divert the
accumulation of rain water/grouting fluid trapped by the temporary embankment that is being used as a
drilling platform.
In our subsequent Corrective Actions dated 27 February 2020, we recorded that Site Memo No. 03380
“is for Pier 4 and the NCR [01539] is for Pier 3 area. Therefore, Site Memo will be submitted separately
as this is not affecting NCR issues.” We also attached a series of site photographs showing no damage
had been found in any of the noted rooms. Nevertheless, the Preventative Acton we suggested was
thus: “The area to be prepared for a diversion of rain water in order not to overflow inside the building
in case [of rain].”
However, in your response to our commented Site Memo No. 03380 received by us on 2 March 2020,
for the proposed Corrective and Preventative Action (CAPA) was commented as follows (see Figure 1
below):
Figure 1
For the reasons set down in our various e-mails issued during May 2020 (copies attached at Annex B
hereto), we reject this NCR and insist that it be closed. This includes amongst others our email dated 28
May 2020 [Thursday 2:12 PM], wherein we summarised the chronology of the events associated to this
matter. In our email, we explained that, following the recent adverse weather condition and the heavy
rainfall which has affected the project, water penetrated the concerned rooms. As a result, you
requested us to carry out rectification works such us removing the water, cleaning and drying the
carpet. These rectification works have been carried out by us albeit the rooms had been handed over to
you previously and are no longer within our scope, but as a gesture of good will, we had agreed to do so.
Accordingly, following the completion of the associated remedial works, any such NCRs’ raised
associated to damage caused to the concerned rooms due to the rainwater penetration, such as the

NCR ref: (1), should have been closed out by you immediately. However, this failed to take place, thus
the issuance of this E-Notice.
Following the completion of the rectification works on our part after the rainfall, as noted above,
another of the Employer’s Other Contractors (M/s EAG) proceeded with their works in the same area /
rooms, after the relevant No-Objection-Certificate (NOC) ref: 0401/TPA/221 was approved / issued by
us. Subsequent to which our installed works have been disturbed and damaged in the manner
illustrated in Figure 2 below.
Figure 2
As evident from the photos shown above, it is clear that our installed and handed over works have been
disturbed / modified / damaged by the Employer’s Other Contractor; and is certainly not in any way
damaged due to the effect of water ingress as result of the rainfall / rainwater penetration, nor are they
related to the open NCR ref: (1) comments mentioned above. Specifically, our works have been
damaged as follows:
•
Gypsum boards have been cut around the MEP services;
•
Carpets have been cut and removed;
•
Floors have been raised and removed around the MEP services;
•
Ceiling tiles removed; and
•
Other general damages to the rooms.
We wish to put on record that this issue is not of our doing or responsibility, and any rectification /
remedial works necessarily required at this stage to our completed Works, will invariably delay us.
Consequently, the purpose of this E-notice is three-fold:
•
Firstly, we wish to notify you that the above noted disturbances and damage is directly
attributable to the Employer’s Other Contractor as mentioned above (it is not our doing or
responsibility);
•
Secondly, we hereby request that you immediately withdraw or close out NCR-01539 and
retract the statements made, which considering the circumstances, are entirely unreasonable; and
•
Lastly, we also request that you issue us an EI / VO that will enable us to complete the
rectification and replacement of the damaged works noted above.
In respect of this last item, please note that on the basis we will be required to undertake additional
works due to the actions and activities of the Employer's Other Contractors, such as any necessary
repairs to our works, which would result in us incurring additional expense and/or requiring additional
time, we would require you to issue us a Variation Order / Engineer's Instruction as per the
requirements of SAA8.
Meanwhile, the various acts of prevention on your part and/or the part of the Other Contractors have
delayed and disrupted our Works. This event will impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B
and Milestone MS09C. Accordingly, we maintain all our rights under the express provisions of
Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 SubClause 1.1] to an extension to the Time for Completion and the associated costs arising from this event,
described herein.
In summary, we request your urgent action to resolve the matters noted above in order to mitigate
delay and/or disruption to the Works; and urge you to take whatever action is required on your part, to
prevent any further damage occurring to our previously completed Works by the Employer's Other
Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
