
Dear Sir,

Further to the CCP presentation of attachment 1) and as requested by the Engineer’s Assistant the
Contractor summarizes herewith its cost estimate for the increased plant capacity and the extension of
the chilled water reticulation network as required for accommodating the expected cooling loads of the
Mushaireb station.

For the avoidance of doubt the Contractor hereby notes its reservations as to the accuracy of this
costing exercise which is indicative only and subject to further change upon receipt of all necessary
information, notably, conclusive clarifications on the CCP scope inconsistencies that were notified via
letter reference 1).

The said inconsistencies relate to the base design but equally affect any departures therefrom.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Contractor has performed its cost estimate for strictly budgetary
purposes, as follows: With respect to the increased CCP plant capacity, the Contractor has performed
its cost estimate on the basis of a QR 6,500 / RT unit rate. The said unit rate is inclusive of both
structural and MEP cost components in relation to the respective design, procurement and installation
works.

Pursuant to the presentation of attachment 1), an increase of c. 11,5MW (equivalent to 3,270 RT) is
expected for this purpose and hence the Contractor estimates that the increased CCP plant capacity
would cost the Employer an additional QR 21,255,000.

With respect to the extension of the chilled water reticulation system, the Contractor has performed its
estimate on the basis of a QR 2,250 / meter of CHW pipe. The said unit rate is inclusive of the chilled
water pipes and all necessary ancillary materials (such as valves, wash-outs, air vents, fiberglass
insulation and cladding).

The distance between the Souq Waqif and Mushaireb stations is c. 2km which translates into a CHW
pipe run requirement of 4km in total and hence the Contractor estimates an additional cost to the
Employer of the order of QR 9,000,000.

As previously mentioned, the foregoing cost estimates are indicative only and have been provided in
short notice for strictly budgetary purposes as verbally requested by the Engineer’s Assistant.

Yours faithfully,
