Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0101 [Update]
Gatehouse GH49 – Damage to PCA Pit Due to Grouting Works by Others – Update – Further Damage to
GH49 PCA pits plus Damage to GH1 PCA Pits
Dear Sirs,
This letter serves as an update to E-Notice No. 0101 issued by way of our letter ref: (1).
The Event(s):
By way of reminder our letter ref: (1) notified you of potential delays consequent upon damages to the
Pre-Conditioned Air (PCA) pit adjacent to Gatehouse GH49, which appear to be attributable due to the
effects of pressure grouting undertaken by the MTA Contractor (L&T) while carrying out remedial works
in an effort to alleviate the subsidence occurring on this Project.
This update to letter ref; (1) serves to notify you that not only has more damage occurred at another
location adjacent to Gatehouse GH49, but to notify you that damage has also occurred to Gatehouse
GH1 – the photos included herein at Annex A refers. These photos provide irrefutable evidence that
large areas adjacent to our PCA pits have been completely removed by L&T and that the continual
pressure grouting appear to have caused undue stress/pressure around the pits causing the concrete to
buckle and shatter; or in other words, caused an upheave in pressure and “burst” the concrete.
We therefore suggest that L&T expose the duct bank connection and HDPE pipe connections to the pits
to ensure that the integrity of the same has not been compromised by the movement of the pits.
This is an unforeseen event, and is not of our doing or responsibility but is clearly at the risk of others.
Any remedial works necessary to address the upheaval and make good the concrete has the potential to
delay and disrupt the progress and completion of our Main Terminal Building (MTB) Works, and
constitute an act of prevention or breach of Contract on the part of the Employer’s Other Contractor.

Potential Impact:
Acts of prevention such as those outlined above, will at this stage of the Works, prevent us from
obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone
MS09B, and if in the event, matters such as these continue, then the more likely these will invariably
knock-on and resultantly prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
