Subject:Re: Incident Report; Missing High Steel Structures for Camera Poles
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) wherein you have informed us about the missing 31 No of
high steel structures for camera poles at CP area Level 0.0 and 2.0. Please note that your letter reporting
the incident is lacking of adequate substantiation providing the details listed below:
•
The exact location of these materials were stored;
•
Signed NOCs by our construction and logistics managers are required for any materials to be
stored on site. In the event that these materials were stored on site, kindly submit the NOCs accordingly;
•
What measures have you taken to properly store these materials;
•
Were these materials properly protected and monitored?;
•
Provide details of how this incident occurred.
In addition to the above, please note that all material shifting internal or external, requires a security
permit and signed forms by all parties involved in the process i.e. driver, requisitioner, security etc.,
which would only then allow any material shifting activities to take place on site. Therefore, without all
of the aforementioned, we consider that the materials could not have been reasonably removed from
their location as per your allegations.
In light of the above, you are hereby advised to specifically identify the responsible party and/or the
root cause by submitting adequate evidence in order for us to notify such party accordingly. We note
that these are big materials and cannot be simply carried away by hand.
In addition, we draw your attention to Clauses 12.1.4 [The Subcontractor’s General Obligations] and
Schedule 11 Clause 4.3.2 [Plant and Materials on Site Intended for the Works] which state your
obligations for all aspects of site management, stability, safety of all site operations and materials
properly stored on the site. Also, the Subcontract Responsibility Matrix Schedule 22 Appendix K –Item
2F, 4F and 6F [Safety & Protection] clearly indicates your responsibilities in regards to the safety and
protection of the materials, goods and equipment.
In case you wish to pursue a claim against another Subcontractor, the onus is on you to provide correct
particulars in the form of substantiation/evidence of the incident for our assessment and to inform the
parties involved accordingly.
To conclude, until a full survey and evidence to support your allegations are submitted, we reject your
supposition in tagging other Subcontractors as responsible for this incident.

Yours faithfully,
