
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 1, received by the Contractor on 22
March 2017. As previously demonstrated within letter reference 3, a separate ‘sump pump’ system had
been deployed by the Contractor for the dewatering of Provisional Sum Utility works as compared to the
‘deep well’ system that was required for the Lump Sum works in Al Aziziyah station.

Notwithstanding the evidence provided by the Contractor via letter references 3) and 5), the Engineer’s
Assistant maintains its rejection of the Tender Plan of reference 5) on the basis of following two (2)
facts. Firstly, the Engineer’s Assistant pointed out in letter reference 1) that “all tender offers included in
the tender plan were clearly for a Deep Well Dewatering System and included for complete dewatering
systems for various stations.” Secondly, the Engineer’s Assistant highlighted a discrepancy between the
commencement date that was included in reference 5) and the one invoked by the Contractor in letter
reference 3).

With regards to the Engineer’s Assistant’s rebuttal, the Contractor confirms that the tender offers that
were included in the tender plan were indeed for the complete dewatering systems of various stations.
The purpose however of those tender offers included in Appendix A of reference 5) was merely to
demonstrate to the Engineer’s Assistant that overall [emphasis added], Koop Water Management was
the most competitive dewatering Subcontractor. As far as the date discrepancy is concerned, this was

simply due to a typo error within the tender plan of reference 5). The correct commencement date is
that of letter reference 3).

The Contractor confirms his opinion that the rebuttal set out by the Engineer’s Assistant via letter
reference 1) is wholly without merit and considers himself to be properly entitled to payment of the
additional costs incurred due to the non-payment of this particular element of Provisional Sum works.
Accordingly, the Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer and the Engineer’s Assistant of the Contractor’s
intention to claim for its entitlement for payment of any additional costs reasonably and unavoidably
incurred (notification pursuant to GC 20.1.2 of Volume 3 of the Contract).

The Contractor requests the Engineer’s Assistant’s delegated approval, pursuant to GC 20.1.6, for Claim
Nr 92’s formal submission date to be extended from 1 May 2017 by 42 day periods on a rolling basis
until either Party unilaterally gives 28 days’ notice to the other Party that the ‘rolling basis’ extension is
to end.

Yours faithfully,
