Subject As-Built Drawing Submissions
Dear Sir,
We again bring to your attention the unacceptable quality of your submitted red-line and as-built
documentation. This indicates that your drawings are not properly developed, coordinated or
validated prior to submission to the Engineer.
We have enclosed examples of what we deem as unacceptable and as extra cted from red-line and as
built drawings submitted by the Contractor in September 2017. The reviewed files confirm that the
drawings in their native format are not in compliance with ADAC's CADD Manual Rev 4.
Whilst you have previously maintained that you are validating the quality control of submitted red-line
and as-built documentation, it is clearly evident that your review system has failed. You are therefore

required to complete your internal QC review of all red line and as-built drawings for accuracy,
completeness and procedural compliance prior to submission to the Engineer. Based on the
submissions received it is evident that you are neglecting to do so.
The attached presentation provides you with examples of the issues identified. These issues could be
summarized as follows:
• Additional irrelevant details provided
• Overlapped notations
• Missing information (cut-off)
• Key plan provided without references
• Dimensions that do not reflect drawing accurately
• Incorrect scale used in title block
• Active layer not set to zero
• Drawings not purged
• Truncated text
• Line weights not correct
• Font issues
Although these findings are from our cursory review, it is likely that these findings of non-compliance
are widespread across all packages, therefore, you must review and validate the CADD standards
requirements with your subcontractors.
To avoid continued drawings rejection, the Contractor must take immediate measures and provide
appropriate resources including the required QC Manager whose key personnel position remains
vacant, in order to ensure that the submittals are prepared correctly. In addition we remind the
Contractor that the current Engineering Manager has been rejected by the Engineer as it was found
that she is not suitably qualified to fulfill this role. Given the above stated non-compliance, we
reiterate that the Contractor is required to submit the curriculum vitae of a suitable candidate for this
vital position. The Engineer does not accept responsibility for continued failings and will hold the
Contractor fully accountable for all delays in red-line and as-built drawing submission and acceptance
and the negative impacts that may result from these de lays.
The Contractor is again reminded of its obligation under Specification Section 01 33 00 to formally
provide a submittal register with the proposed submittal dates for your As-Built drawings.
Yours faithfully,
