
Dear Sir

Further to issue of letter reference item 1, the Contractor writes in reference to arrival of TBMs at
Msheireb Station for dismantling and removal back through the tunnel. A specific document, Design
Control Interface Document (DCID) no. M006-GDB-SSA-ICD-00041 Rev 0.0 was prepared and signed off
with the Major Station Civil Contractor outlining the agreed methodology for the removal of the TBMs
with a division of Responsibility agreed to be discharged within the parameters of Contract.

The Contractor requested information well in advance from the Major Station Civil Contractor on casting
of concourse slab I order to provide them with the necessary embedded parts to be inserted to take
care calculated load of tunneling equipment as outlined in DCID. Contractor notes that required
information to provide these parts is still awaited from the Major Station Civil Contractor which was
expected originally in Oct 2015, indicating a major delay in construction schedule of the interfacing
party. The Contractor has repeatedly reminded the Major Station Civil Contractor about this required
information in interface meetings which is recorded in Minutes and through a formal letter in this
respect which is enclosed for reference. The required information on this subject is very important to
the Contractor for mobilization of resources of subsequent activities which are on critical path of the
project.

The Contractor further notes that four No. of TBMs i.e. S-920, S-921, S-922 and S-923 are scheduled to
make their final Breakthrough at Msheireb during April and May 2016. Availability of Concourse Slab
prepared for Tunnel arrival incorporating agreed Design loads to be transferred during the dismantling
and removal of tunnel equipment in advance is essential for Contractor to meet the programme.

Due to the above the Contractor has serious concerns that Msheireb station will not be ready for the
arrival and removal back through the tunnel of the TBM.

The Contractor hereby gives notice under General Conditions, (“GC”) clause 8.3.7, an early warning of
delay. The current circumstances if not resolved urgently will adversely affect the programme and
Contract Requirements.

The Contractor has made its own investigations for the mitigation measures to overcome the delay and
accordingly proposed an alternative construction methodology of vertically lifting of the TBMs from
Msheireb Station and found it technically feasible, although subject to agreement of Interfacing
Contractors and Employer for taking it forward.

Yours faithfully,
