Subject RE: Limited Work Front for Finishing and Handing Over
Dear Sir,
Further to the Subcontractor's letter reference (1), the Contractor wishes to clarify as follows:
1. In respect of the Subcontractor's alleged delays in obtaining the acceptance certificates, the
Contractor notes that these delays may be attributable to the incomplete handing-over deliverables
made by the Subcontractor. Accordingly, and as advised via the Contractor's letter reference (2), the
Subcontractor is requested to attend the close-out coordination meeting which is the right forum to
address these topics.
2. In relation to the production of the portable planters being interrupted by the lack of site accessibility,
the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor was instructed in May 2017 to commence the delivery of
portable planters (PS-1.0) to Site; however, the Subcontractor did not proceed accordingly because it
did not have sufficient resources in its factories to assemble the two halves of the portable planters. The
Contractor refutes therefore that the delays in the progress of the portable planters' works result from a
site accessibility issue; these de lays are attributable to the lack of manufacturing capacity of the
Subcontractor.
In addition to the above, the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has provided no details in respect
of the additional cost and/or time incurred.
Notwithstanding this, should the Subcontractor still intend to claim compensation from the Contractor
visa- vis the above described events, the Contractor reminds the Subcontractor of his obligation to
submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28) days from the date of the events which allegedly
gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of sub-clause 27.1.5. Furthermore, the
Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in accordance with sub-clause 27.2.1
within twenty-one (21) days in order to enable the Contractor to review any entitlement the
Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost.
The Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the above stated contractual
obligations as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's
submitted delaying events.
Yours faithfully,
