Subject:
Dear Sir,

Minutes of Meeting Held on 06.02.2018 – Commercial Meeting

Please find attached the minutes of meeting from the Commercial meeting held on 06 February 2018,
related to your prolongation cost submission (i.e. Monthly Cost Schedule). We have detailed below the
information we require further, in order to assess your submission for Extension of Time costs.
We have conducted a fair review for entitlement of your prolongation cost submission and we have
identified that the submission needs further substantiation in line with the relevant provisions of the
Subcontract. As advised, we request that you submit your claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of
Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the
Subcontract.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, we also require you to
provide us with the full details of the Staff resources that you would have deployed in executing and
completing your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline programme. Also, the
Staff resources you considered necessary to execute and complete your Subcontract Works in
accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme. This could be in the form of Organisation charts for both
periods. The details are to include resource names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates.
You should also categorise the resources into "Core" (deployed across the entire works), "Location"
(deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and "Task" (deployed to supervise
specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding). Additionally, we also note that a portion of the staff cost included in your
submission, is considered to be Overheads and needs to be excluded from your claim.
Please also be informed that you are required to submit your assessment starting from the
commencement date, showing that the events and circumstances which were beyond the Time for
Completion were inevitable, unforeseeable, unintentional and beyond your reasonable control.
Moreover, you have to identify any culpable delays and present concurrent delays starting from the
commencement date. The Contractor states that culpability and concurrency are indeed matters of
importance as they serve as indicators of entitlement.
Furthermore, you are required to submit your assessment starting from the commencement date, in
order to be able to determine any entitlement associated with delays to works that may have not been
added to your submission previously in your Monthly Cost Schedule (February 2014-April 2015).
Without prejudice, we note that this is only to evaluate any potential entitlement as per the

requirements of Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s
Claims].
Furthermore, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement related to this matter,
you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the Subcontract to provide all information and evidence
that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate the alleged delays as required under the
Subcontract Agreement including evidence or proof of loss.
This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
