Subject:Delay Notice
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, please be informed that despite all of the continued support that
we have provided in order to aide your progression with both on-site and off-site works, it is evident
that you are still failing to meet the committed milestone dates as per letter referenced 1) above. As a
result, there is a high possibility that all forthcoming completion dates will not be achieved.
Please be reminded, that any further slippages and delays beyond the latest committed completion
dates will have a significant impact on our works; for which you will be held solely responsible.
Therefore, we hereby restate the following committed completion dates that require your immediate
attention and action:
1.
Fabrication and delivery of complete weathered steel to site on or before the end of April 2018;
2.
Complete installation and hand over of all weathered steel including brass on or before 25th
May 2018;
3.
Complete delivery of all glass including all accessories to site on or before 30th April 2018;
4.
Complete installation of all glass and hand over of DMI’s original scope on or before 25th May
2018.

As you are aware, the access ramp to level 2 is planned to be dismantled on or before the end of May
2018. Consequently, any slippage and/or delay beyond the above dates will cause TCAJV to incur costs
which will be subsequently evaluated and deducted from your account. You are hereby requested to
submit an action plan within three (3) working days of receipt of this letter, detailing the necessary
measures you will take in order to mitigate any potential delays to the aforementioned activities.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Yours faithfully,
