Subject:
Concrete Lid Slab under Escalators and Stairs at CP L0.0 Sectors 5.16 & 5.22 Employer’s
Request for Justification for Deviating from IFC Drawings
Dear Sir,
We refer to receipt of the Employer’s e-mail ref: (4) requesting an ‘official letter’ in support of the
reasons for us purportedly deviating from the original design of the ‘lid’ under the escalators and stairs
at L0.0 Sectors 5.16 and 5.22, following our successive requests to have you re-code the current Status
Code 3 responses our Shop Drawing Submittals, including those identified in our RFEI submitted via our
letter ref: (1). Please note that we have previously addressed a similar matter, for a different location, in
our letter ref: (5) above.
The history of events associated with this issue is convoluted and voluminous; a detailed narrative of
which is provided at Annex A hereto for your information and reference. However at its simplest:
•
The original IFC was unclear and failed to specify the type of material or system to be used for
the 2-hour fire resistance and whether for example, it was gypsum or concrete or other material;
•
As a result, we raised RFEI/0401/0152 via our letter ref: (1), requesting for an Engineer’s
Instruction and revised IFC drawings;
•
The Engineer via letter ref: (2) responded to RFEI/0152 stating that the matters raised, were
discussed during previous meetings and requested us to raise an RFI to resolve the technical solution;

•
Numerous workshops and meetings were held to discuss this issue, where it was agreed to
proceed with a 2-hour fire rated concrete material in both locations at CP L0.0 Sector 5.16 and 5.22;
•
Our technical proposal was sent in advance, via an email dated 20 January 2018, prior to
sending an RFI. With our mentioned email, we submitted the proposal for a 2-hour fire rated concrete
lid. The Engineer’s Design Consultant (KPF) responded with various technical comments without stating
any objection for the proposal (emails hereby attached);
•
The main reasons which it was jointly decided by the parties to proceed with a concrete
solution, for the 2-hour fire rated lid system are the following:
works are expedited using concrete instead of gypsum and can be constructed faster; and
MEP services can be readily suspended from a concrete lid system but not from gypsum;
•
Subsequently, RFI/0401/15861 was raised including the 2-hour fire rated concrete lid as
discussed and agreed. The Engineer responded to RFI/15861, stating no objection to the 2-hour fire
rated concrete lid;
•
Consequently, absent the receipt of any updated IFC Drawings from you, and in order to
progress the works and mitigate any potential delay, our Shop Drawings were developed incorporating
the 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid as agreed. This has been subsequently constructed;
•
Unfortunately, the relevant Shop Drawing Submittals, identified at ref: (3), were returned Status
Code 3. Clearly, you have overlooked the fact that the RFI/15861 response which included the 2-hour
fire rated concrete lid was already accepted by the Engineer;
•
Meanwhile, the associated the structural calculations submitted1, which reflect the agreed 2hour fire rated concrete lid at the locations discussed herein, have received code 2.
The situation we now face is this: despite having discussed the above with you and the Employer on
many occasions and requesting you to re-code the Status Code 3 Shop Drawing Submittals, this has
failed to materialise. In the meantime, we are now faced with a situation where, because of the Code 3
status, there exist numerous open Work Inspection Requests (WIRs), which are required to be closed so
that we can finalise the works.
We therefore, request your kind assistance to re-code the Shop Drawing Submittals identified herein to
Status Code 2 or higher, and do so urgently. This will enable us to close the relevant WIRs and NCR.

ANNEX A
Background of Events
1.0
Concrete Lid Slab under Escalator and Stairs to CP Level L0.0 Sector 5.16 and 5.22
1.1
Based on the Design as per IFC Drawings series ‘G’, the works for fire compartmentation under
the escalators and stairs at CP L0.0 Sector 5.16 & 5.22, consist of a 2-hour fire resistance rating. The IFC
Drawings however, do not specify the type of material or system to be used for the 2-hour fire
resistance rating (i.e. if it is a lid system with gypsum or concrete or any other material or any other
system);
1.2
As a result, due to the inefficiencies in the Design and the incomplete information provided to
us in the Contract, we raised RFEI/0401/0152 via letter ref (1) above, requesting more clarity and an
Engineer’s Instruction in regards to the 2-hour fire resistance rating to be constructed, at the mentioned
locations;
1.3
Specifically, with RFEI/0152 we requested the following:

1.3.1 In IFC Drawings A07/415, A04/102 at sector 5.11 and IFC A04/109 at sector 5.22, fire-rated
ceiling was indicated for the rooms located under the escalators. However, the walls were not indicated
to be similarly fire rated. IFC Drawings A42/216, A42/221 and A07/415 also did not specify fire-rated
ceiling in similar rooms located under the escalators at L0.0 Level. The Contractor therefore, requested
the Engineer to review the information provided in the IFC drawings and instruct the necessary changes
(if desired) and issue the revised IFC Documents together with an Engineer's Instruction;
1.4
In accordance with the Fire Strategy Report [Volume 3 of 4 DESIGN REPORTS Book 20 of 24], a 2hour fire resistance rated system must be constructed under the escalators and stairs. As stated above,
the IFC drawings do not provide details in regards to the system and material to be used. Therefore, the
mentioned RFEI was raised to provide more clarity on the Design;
1.5
For the reasons stated above, we had further RFEI meetings/workshops with the
Employer/Engineer/Engineer’s Design Consultant. During the meetings we raised the issue that
underneath the escalators at L0.0 Sector 5.16 and 5.22 there was a 2-hour fire rated ceiling, but the
enclosing walls were not shown as fire rated. After numerous meetings/workshops, it was agreed to
proceed with a 2-hour fire rated concrete instead of a gypsum material in both locations at CP L0.0
Sector 5.16 and 5.22;
1.6
The Engineer via letter ref: (2) responded to RFEI/0152 and also included in its response,
numerous other design issues raised by us previously. The Engineer stated that the matters raised in
RFEI/0152 were discussed during a meeting on 13th January 2015 and also mentioned that an email was
sent including a proposed solution. Please note that we have not been able to locate the said email and
any minutes of the meeting, therefore, it is unclear what has been discussed during the mentioned
meeting. Moreover, we were requested to raise an RFI to resolve the technical solution.
1.7
Our technical proposal was sent in advance, via an email (attached herewith) dated 20 January
2018, prior to sending an RFI. With our mentioned email, we submitted a proposal for a 2-hour fire
rated concrete lid and the Engineer’s Design Consultant (KPF) responded with comments on our
proposal. Specifically, KPF stated that there is no objection in regards to the proposal and made specific
comments in regards to further technical details to be provided (email hereby attached);
1.8
In light of the aforementioned, it was also jointly agreed between the parties, to proceed with
the works of a 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid system at CP L0.0 Sector 5.16 & 5.22;
1.9
The main reasons which it was jointly decided by the parties to proceed with a concrete
solution, for the 2-hour fire rated lid system are the following:
1.9.1 the works would be expedited using concrete instead of gypsum since concrete can be
constructed faster; and
1.9.2 the MEP services can be hanged from the concrete lid system but not from a gypsum lid system.
1.10 Subsequently, as per our aforementioned discussions, RFI/0401/15861 was submitted wherein
we included the 2-hour fire rated concrete lid as agreed, to be used at the locations discussed herein.
The Engineer responded to RFI/15861, stating no objection to the proposed 2-hour fire rated concrete
lid.
1.11 Consequently, the shopdrawings have been submitted via SDS/0401/S/4129-00 incorporating
the 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid for approval, which has been constructed. However, the
comments received on 24 May 2018 in the aforementioned shopdrawings submittal by the Engineer and
the Engineer’s Design Consultant, have been code 3. Clearly, you have overlooked the fact that the
RFI/15861 response which included the 2-hour fire rated concrete lid was already accepted by the
Engineer.
1.12 Also the Engineer provided code 3 for the columns stating its disagreement about the projected
columns located in the corridor. However, the column setting out showing the projected columns in the
corridor was already included in our proposal submitted via RFI/15861, which was accepted by the
Engineer.

1.13 Meanwhile, the associated structural calculations submitted , which reflect the agreed 2-hour
fire rated concrete lid at the locations discussed herein, have received code 2;
1.14 All of the above, have been discussed numerous times and have been agreed with the
Employer/Engineer/Engineer’s Design Consultant prior to implementation;
1.15 Currently, there are numerous open Work Inspection Requests (WIRs) which are required to be
closed so that we can finalize the works.
1.16 In view of the above and the fact that the events discussed herein have been previously agreed
with the Employer and consequently the Engineer, we kindly request you to re-code the shop-drawings,
enclosed in the list herewith.
1.17 Additionally, we wish to confirm that the events and circumstances discussed herein are
deemed to be known events that occurred prior to the ‘Amendment Effective Date’ included within
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8), i.e. 4 September 2018; and accordingly are
considered to be subject to SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.7.2 (‘Contractor’s Settled Claims’) and/or Sub-Clause
1.7.4 (Included Circumstances’).
Subject: Handing back of all PQC Apron and associated areas
Yours faithfully,
