Clause 27.1.5(a): Interim Particulars - Delay Notice No.0047 - Engineer's Overdue
Dear Sir,
We refer to the interim particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 0047 issued via (3) for the alleged
delay subject: "Engineer's Overdue Responses to 2,332 Shop Drawings at 11 February 2019- including
but not limited to Architectural, MEP, Fire Protections, Security Systems, Doors and Door Frame Shop
Drawings (issued vide 604 submittals)".
Section 013300 of the Specifications provides not only the submittal review time but also imposes
certain obligations on the Contractor which to date have not been adhered to. Clause 1.3 A states that
the Contractor shall provide a Submittal Register to the Engineer and shall ensure that submittals are
made sufficiently in advance of all procurement, fabrication and installation activities to allow for the
required review and approval. Furthermore, the Contractor is required to ensure that the submittals
are transmitted to the Engineer as per the approved submittal programme. Clause 1.3.3 f states that
the Contractor shall have no entitlement for an extension to the Time for Completion in the event that
they fail to transmit submittals to the Engineer in a timely manner.
Additionally, the Contractor at the Risk Committee Meeting that was held on 10 March 2019 stated
that there is no current impact on the critical path for the submitted E-Notices. The Contractor's
statement at the Risk Committee Meeting is also supported by the fact that the Contractor's Monthly
Programme updates do not show any impact to the Substantial Completion Date.
We also record that the Contractor in correspondence {1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged
delay to its Programme of works and has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Controls Requirements
{Clause 1.3.7). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis within 28 days
as required under Clause 27.2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.

The Contractor is aware that a Time Impact Analysis along with a concurrency analysis are required to
be submitted in order to enable the Engineer to review the Contractor's allegations.
In light of the above, we consider that the Contractor has not substantiated any entitlement to an
extension to the Time for Completion.
Yours faithfully,
