
Dear Sir,
The Engineer's Assistant acknowledges ALYSJ's response as referenced at item 2) above. As scope and
requirements have now been finalized the above response M006-GDB-COM-LTR-01494 is now
superseded and Contractor is to focus on the Engineer's Assistant request below.

The Engineer's Assistant, pursuant to Sub-Clause 13.2.1 requires ALSYJ to submit a detailed quotation
for both price and duration as per the following scope details.

•
Undertake the design and installation associated with the Qatar National Museum underground
Metro passage connection as per drawing "Metro Connection Section - 1, Underground Level" and
drawing "Proposed Metro Connection Underground Level" attached to this letter.
•
The design and installation scope will be for civil and structural Work only. Where known
Contractor is to make allowances for the inclusion of future MEP work.
•
NB: Contractor to Note that the Ground level "Pop-Up Box" (coloured blue) on drawing "Metro
Connection Section - 1 is NOT included within this current scope requirement and will be considered
later as part of Architectu ral Provisional Sums.
•
Contractor is to include all necessary interface co-ordination and management obligations that
will be required to complete the Work .
•

Other attachments for Contractor information and reference are:

a)

Drawing: QNM Q Rail Passage Connection

b)

Drawing QNM CP0_14_74021 Area Plan c)\ ASTAD Ltr QNM Connection of 17 May 15

Dear Sir,
In response to Contractor's letter referenced at item 2 above the Engineer's Assistant makes the
following observations for Contractor to review and provide a detailed response.

1.
There is no evidence within the letter that Contractor has actually a) reviewed the design
quotation as received from Atkins and b) negotiated the submitted values as being acceptable for this
scope of work.

2.
Contractor's is required to review Contractor's estimated amount of OAR 8,500,000 for civil and
structural work and provide as a minimum an estimate, broken down into reasonable activities, with
qualifications and I or contingency factors (such as a percentage allowance) due to the lack of detailed
design information. It is assumed Contractor should have had a reasonable breakdown and assessment
based on the drawing information provided with item 1 referenced above.

3.
Contractor is required to consider and submit additional cost estimates associated with design
work for the MEP and Architectural Finishes. These estimates should be based on the drawing
information provided with item 1 referenced above.

4.
Contractor is required to consider and submit additional cost estimates associated with both
MEP and Architectural Finishes work. Although these specific estimates would within a provisional sum
contract scope, the Engineer's Assistance requires reasonable estimates, broken down into several
activities, with qualifications and I or contingency factors (such as a percentage allowance) due to the
lack of detailed design information. It is assumed Contractor should be able to provide such a
breakdown and assessment based on the drawing information provided with item 1 referenced above.

In order for this potential scope requirement to be progressed with other Parties and as time is of the
essence, the Engineer's Assistant requires Contractor to submit the above estimate responses within
fourteen (14) days from receipt of this letter.

We look forward to your positive focus on the above.
Yours faithfully,
