Subject:Pier 4 – Fire Evacuation Requirements – Impact on Subsidence Rectification
Dear Sir
We write with reference to on-going discussions concerning the Pier 4 Fire Evacuation Plan, including
without limitation the various e-mail communications referenced herein, and record the following:
We are in the process of undertaking subsidence rectification works to the sewer and storm pipe line
along with soil improvements. This is a work in progress but there currently exists an open trench of
maximum width 9.5 meters and a depth of up to 6.5 meters running the entire length of Pier 4 (see
attached photos for information). Notwithstanding, for the purpose of obtaining the Taking-Over
Certificate (TOC) and at your request, we were asked to provide “a plan indicating what escape routes
from the building can be made available from 16 Dec 19 so that we can get this approved in advance by
AHJ. These must lead safely to the refuge zone on the apron and highlight any temporary works
required.” This was to take “into consideration the programme for excavation/ backfilling to facilitate
the subsidence works.”

Following which you then notified us of the specific requirements of the Authority Having Jurisdiction
(AHJ) in terms of us providing “full access at apron level to all landing valves, hydrants and breeching
inlets. Access is also required to all egress and entry points in order to facility inspections, testing and
emergency response to an incident”. While we took note of your comments, we respectfully advised
you that were in the progress of on-going subsidence rectification works and while would endeavour to
accommodate your requirements “these accesses are physically obstructed by ongoing activities.”
We subsequently provided you with the following sketch drawings by e-mail on 13 November 2019
[10:00 AM] illustrating a means by which the open excavation can be crossed in order to provide you /
AHJ with access to the valves, hydrants and breeching valves, as well as the egress and entry points:
1.
Gatehouse Landing Valve Location;
2.
L1.0 Apron Escape Routes; and
3.
L2.0 Escape Routes
However, by way of your e-mail dated 17 November 2019 [11:34 AM], you informed us of changes to
the AHJ requirements in so far as “AHJ requires full access to each of … [individual breeching outlets] …
so we are going to have to look at each one individually in terms of access.” This was later followed by a
further e-mail dated 19 November 2019 [12:01 PM] advising us of inter alia the following:
Our proposed “Typical Access to Breaching Inlets-Backfilling Not Completed” detail/section is
rejected because you opined it did not provide safe access in the event of a fire. In lieu you requested
that we provide a platform spanning the open excavations incorporating handrails on both sides. You
further requested that we propose a platform mock-up for you review.
You advised that clear access must be provided to all breaching inlets, landing valves and fire
hydrants to both the MTB Building and Gatehouse and is to be maintained “at all times”
You asked us to revise our drawings to shown all fire hydrant locations and fire appliances setup locations (to be utilised in the event of a fire). Safe access to all fire hydrants must be provided. A
mock-up demonstrating safe access to be provided where excavations exist.
This was followed by a meeting on 21 November 2019 in which you further qualified your access
requirements, requiring provision of a circa 2 metre wide platform constructed within and running
alongside the external façade of Pier 4 to the entire length of the open excavation. In addition, we were
told to construct individual platforms that cross the open excavation thus providing separate bridges to
each and every door, breaching inlet, landing valve and fire hydrant. However, this has since changed
and as agreed at our meeting on 25 November 2019 you just require the bridges.
Nevertheless, put in perspective, this will require:
External breaching inlets to be fully accessible for the fire brigade: 9 Nos.
Access to corridor doors leaving to outside escape routes: 10 Nos.
Access to external doors connecting room directly to outside: 12 Nos.
In all there are a total of 31 individual access points required. If we are to do as requested, this will
result in a ‘forest’ of temporary works within the existing trench and will have major implications on our
ability to complete the subsidence rectification works in accordance with our agreed programme.
Notwithstanding the obvious physical constraints and obstructions the temporary works will cause us
(severely disrupting and delaying our ability to progress the works in a regular and diligent manner); but
our works will be further delayed by the time taken to obtain approval of drawings, mock ups and
method statements; not to mention the additional time taken for us to procure, have the materials and
equipment delivered to site, install them and have the temporary works inspected and approved.
While appreciating the need to provide access for the reasons outlined above, we believe the time taken
to obtain design approval together with the time taken to manufacture / procure and deliver all the
items required for the temporary works to the extent you require, will be far longer than the time taken
for us to complete the subsidence rectification works and back fill the area. We therefore urge you to

reconsider your requirements and to adopt a pragmatic balanced approach allowing us to maintain the
current course of action and for us to complete the rectification works as planned.
After all, as noted at the outset of this letter, even by your own admission in your e-mail dated 10
November 2019 [5:39 PM] you acknowledged that any agreed escape route plan must take to “into
consideration the programme for excavation/ backfilling to facilitate the subsidence works.”
Yours faithfully,
