Dear Mr. Abbas,
KPF refer to the AECOM Transmiltal as per reference 1) and the enclosed TCA-N
letter as per reference 2) regarding Stainless Steel Handrails (BAL-04) Works on 12.0
Extemal Areas (DAS, VIP Drop-off, and VVIP Cmb).
We refer to the meeting held on 16 Jan 2018 between ADAC, CMA, KPF and TCA-N
where comments on the DS/0401/4828 were discussed in detail for each revision of
the calculations explaining the Code 3 comment. From the review, it was demonstrated
that the Design Consultants comments were valid and for that reason the
contractor updated and re-submitted the calculations 5 times to address the comment
until il reached the last revision where one Code 3 was pending to be addressed:
6/imes of Code 3 comments:
o Most comments were adequately addressed Howeve1; the section just ahove
the stiffeners 011 the end post is figzu-ed at 200mm wide (page 41, pdf 49) hut
c?ppears to lJe only 163mm wide (lost page, pdf 112). Proportioning for the
nmmwer section, the post is just harely overstressed (1 OJ%).

o Tile end post has 4. 7mm of detection (pe1pendiculor to plate) from pre-tension
of the cables and temporary loads, occupants may perceive the bow in
the plate
The conclusion of the meeting was that the Contractor would review the comments
again in comparison to the MTL approved calculations and for the design consultants
to do the same so a solution can be reached to move forward.
We also noted to the Contractor that per Specification Section 057300, the handrail
and post/fixings fall under the performance requirement that places the onus for the
design squarely on the contractor to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements
in accordance with the Contract Documents.
Furthermore, the Specification together with the Drawings establish requirements for
aesthetic effects and performance requirements. As scope and performance documents,
the Drawings and Specifications do not necessarily indicate or describe in detail
all work required for the full performance and completion of the Works. Contractor
is responsible for developing and completing the design in accordance with the
Contract Documents, and shall provide all items required for proper completion of
the Works.
Subsequently, another meeting/workshop was held with ADAC, KPF & TCA-N dated
15 March 2018 where IFC drawings, load and performance criteria and handrail designs
were discussed sharing the information between the MTL and the MTB and it
was concluded that the action is with the contractor to explore the following options:
(refer to e-mail sent to ADAC dated 15 March 2018)
a) Re-submit the mentioned document submittal DS/0401/4828 addressing the
one pending comment on the DS to match the shop drawings so works can
progress accordingly.
b) Use the base plates/brackets for the MTL but the thickness, size and anchor
bolts would need to increase to meet the load criteria for MTB. Calculations
would need to be submitted for review accordingly.
To date, we did not receive the revised calculations from the Contractor.
Based on the aforementioned, we reject the contractor delay claim in its entirety since
the Contractor received all technical information enabling them to proceed and reiterating
that the contractor is responsible for the detailed design of the handrail and
post/fixings.
We consider this topic as closed as far as concerned KPF.
Yours faithfully,
