Subject:Re: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter reference (1) we hereby provide
our response to your letter reference (2). As stated in our letter (1) the dispute itself has nothing to do
with TCAJV from a contractual perspective. However, we have a duty under the Contract as per Clause
21.3 [Payments to Sub-subcontractors] to carry out due diligence in regards to Sub-Subcontractor
payments.
We have in our previous letter, stated our rights derived from the Subcontract Agreement between us,
detailing our contractual rights, in which enable us to withhold any amounts from your Interim
Payments in connection with due sums pending by you to your domestic Subcontractors.
As stated above and within our letter (1), there are mechanisms within the Subcontract to deal with this
matter. Accordingly, you have been instructed to bring this dispute to an end, in avoidance of the works
being affected by it. Please be informed that we have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the
works and you have the obligation/responsibility to provide any information required to guarantee for
the same.
In addition to the aforementioned, we reiterate our formal request made in our letter (1) to submit all
reasonable evidence and all information/documents regarding the payment status of M/S Plus Painting.
Also, you may include in your submission any other information that you may consider relevant to this
matter.
In light of the aforementioned, you are instructed without fail to submit an “Aging Schedule” containing
the following Sub-Subcontractor’s information within (5) days of receipt of this letter:
1.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Application Details;
2.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Certification Details;

3.
Sub-Subcontractor’s Date of Invoice Issued;
4.
Status of Payment Against Individual Sub-Subcontractor’s Certifications/Invoices;
5.
Date of Payment Made and/or Due to the Sub-Subcontractor;
6.
Number of Days Payment Late (In Accordance with Payment Terms between you and the SubSubcontractor);
7.
Any other relevant documents and/or information.
In addition to Clause 21.3 [Payment to Sub-Subcontractors], we would also make reference to Clause
5.4.3 [Interim Payment - Schedule 11 Payment Terms] stating that Payment Certifications would be
subject to deductions if we believe you have failed to make payments to your supply chain. For ease of
reference, we hereby state the following:
Clause 5.4 [Schedule 11- Payment Terms]
“When agreeing or determining the amount of the interim payment to which the Subcontractor is
entitled and issuing the Interim Payment Certificate, the Contractor shall deduct from the amount
claimed by the Subcontractor any items in the Statement with which the Contractor disagrees including
items which the Contractor (acting reasonably) believes relates to:
5.4.3 - failure of the Subcontractor to make payments properly to Sub-subcontractors, suppliers to pay
for labour, Materials or equipment or a failure to provide adequate evidence of the same to the
Contractor;”
As such you are to take this letter as formal notification/notice of our intention to invoke our rights
pursuant to Clause 5.6 of Schedule 11 [Payment Terms] whereas “If the Subcontractor fails to make
payment of any amount that is due to a Sub-subcontractor in circumstances where the Contractor
determines such non-payment was not the responsibility of such Sub subcontractor, the Contractor may
(but shall be under no obligation to) pay such Sub-subcontractor directly, having given five (5) days'
notice to the Subcontractor of its intention to do so. Any amount paid to a Sub-subcontractor pursuant
to this paragraph 5.6 shall be deemed (and identified) in total 1 & 3 (as described in paragraphs 3.1.2
and 3.1.6) of any statements submitted by the Subcontractor to the Contractor after the date of such
payment. Any direct payment made by the Contractor is not intended to create and shall not create any
contractual relationship or other relationship whether reliance based or otherwise between the
Contractor and any Sub-subcontractor”.
Our decision, of a potential implementation of the aforementioned, is not one that should be taken
lightly. For the record, in case the above Clause is invoked it will in no way, release you of any of your
contractual commitments on the project nor will it also absolve you from the levying of any cost and or
delays over and above that of the payments made to your Subcontractor on your behalf.
In view of the above, it is clear that your comment made in your letter reference (2) “[…] You are
reminded that withholding a valid payment entitlement for works done under our contract constitutes a
breach of contract […]” is wholly disregarded.
In summary, we reserve all of our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and we hold you completely
culpable for all costs and delays incurred associated with your decision and/or inability to service your
supply chain.

We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
