
Dear Mr. Sims,

ACTION INFO. F-UP

ALYSJ JV has reviewed your Reference letter and provides the following rough order of magnitude,
based on Contractors study, for Employers perusal. ALYSJ JV informs the Employer that though the
number of chiller yards decreased thus providing a more environmentally user friendly and esthetic
concept, it shows an increase in cost.

The following information provides the Employer with an appraisal of the Contractors works entailed in
deliveringa central cooling system or plant (CCP) with a comparison to what was understood at tender
stage. Note that current concept encompasses all relevant MEP and civil works associated with the
contractual scope a_nd that the CCP is an attempt by the Contractor to capture said facility turnkey.
Also note, aside from the Feasibility Study/Report, no specific Civil Works/MEP technical design or
drawings have been produced or detailed.

Said study reveals the use of three (3) CCP's providing chilled water for all stations, adjoining tunnel
sections, switch boxes and stabling facility when applicable, as illustrated in the attached feasibility
study. The CCP chillers will be centrifuge l water cooled, coupled with cooling water towers (CT's). The
number of chillers and CT's within the CCP shall be such that the total cooling capacity will be provided if
one chiller or tower is out of service. Similarly all three CCP facilities shall be located above switch boxes,
facilitatingan accessible and maintainable facility. Said facilities will have 2 levels;the lower level will
house the chillers, the chilled water network, pump-station and the electrical substat on.The upper level
will be equipped with the cooling towers, the roof will be grated at grade.

The CCP's locations and sizes are:

CCP-1; will be constructed on top of the switchbox located southwards of Airport City North Station. The
approximate dimensions are; bottom level 1.440m2 (24m x 60m x 6m High), top level 1.440m2 (24m x
60m x llm High) with grated roof.
CCP-2; will be constructed on top of the switchbox near Al Saad Stadium. The approximate dimensions
are; bottom level 2.400m2 (24m x 100m x 6m High),top level 2.400m2 (24m x 100m x 11m High) with
grated roof.

ALYSJ
joint venture

CCP-3 (this is a future option); constructed on top of the switchbox at the south West end of Muaither
Station. The approximate dimensions are; bottom level 1.440m2 (24m x 60m x 6m High), top level
1.440m2 (24m x 60m x m High) with grated roof.

The CCP scope allowed for is as follows: Civil works (as described above) Chillers
Cooling towers with pumps
Primary chilled water circulation pumps Secondary chilled water circulating pumps
Accessories and devices required for the operation of the system Control and monitoring devices
Plant management system Unique station heat exchangers

Substantial increase in chill water pipe works with accessories and with foam-glass type insulation
(SOmm thickness) and aluminium cladding 0.6mm, up to heat exchangers (single supply and return loop
only)
Cooling water pipe works with accessories
Electrical Substation housing the transformers, MCC's and standby generators
Building services for the CCPs and the Substation inclusive but not limited to lighting, domestic water,
life safety systems, fire suppress ion and drainage.
Back of house finishes
The cost is inclusive of design, procurement, installation and test and commissioning. Not included in
the CCP scope:
Generators for standby power and accessories
Architectural finishes
External utilities (lighting, fire fighting,irrigation, drainage) Landscape architecture
Hardscape
Additional connections to the public networks
The cost saving corresponding to the smaller required station power supply (SPS) and equipment
(transformers, Main LV switchboard etc.) for each location is not considered in the estimate, since the
SPS equipment is not part of our scope of work.

The indicative difference in price between the current concept and the CCP design is as follows: CCP-1
has a difference of +109 .lSM QR
CCP-2 has a difference of +186.76M QR
CCP-3 has a difference of +92.76M QR

The Total difference in price between the current concept and the CCP design is:+388.67 M QR.
Dear Sir,

Further to your feasibility study and your estimate (reference 2) concerning the Central Cooling System
for the Gold Line,we need your cost analysis fo...,the implementation of the new concept of stations and
tunnel cooling.

According to your feasibility study, this new concept results in a lower number of chiller yards to be
constructed above the stations. We need your analysis of the cost Impact on the project, both on the
civil contract and the provisional sum, with in particular:

1.
The estimated cost saving due to the non-construction of chiller yards above all the stations and
lower stakeholder interfaces constraints (civil D&B contract);
2.
The estimated cost saving due to the non-provision, installation and T&C of the station chiller
units for all the stations (Provisional Sum);
)
3.

The estimated cost of the centralcooling plants construction (civil D&B c:Ontract);

4.
The estimated cost provision, installation and T&C of the central cooling plants (Provisional
Sum);
5.

The estimated cost of the pipe network to be implanted in the tunnel (ProvisionalSum).

For each of the above items, please provide us with a detailed breakdown In terms of numbec of units
considered for each of the stations.

We also need your detail assessment of program impact for the implementation of the Centralised
Cooling System.
Yours faithfully,
