Subject: RE: Out of Tolerance Steel to Grid line- E53 North lnfill
Dear Sir,

The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor shares its view that
'the
steel has not deflected as anticipated' and, whilst providing a simple recollection of pictures, claims that
the skylight frame cannot be fitted in line with the adjacent frames.
Firstly, the Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor that it is an integral part of its scope to
'make due allowance for previous trades tolerances which may effect the Subcontract Works'.
Moreover,
the roof cladding Specification 074101, Clause 4.7 [Movement and Deflection] and Clause 13.2
[Tolerances] clearly state that the roofing works shall allow for the building tolerances, deflections,
changes in dimension etc. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor has not explained why the actual
deflection of the steel structure could not have been reasonably foreseen on the Effective Date and
therefore would be over and above the aforementioned contractual obligations.
In addition to the above, it is noted that the Subcontractor's letter (1) does not provide the minimum
level
of detail (such as a report with as-built surveys) that enable the Contractor to assess this further. Should
the Subcontractor be of the opinion that the actual movement of the steel structure is beyond any
permissible deviation; the Subcontractor may submit full detailed particulars to the Contractor
demonstrating its entitlement. Meanwhile, the Subcontractor is requested to advise its proposals to
achieve the project requirements for appearance and fit as specified in the Contract Documents.
Subject Clause 27.1.1- Delay Notice No. 1012
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1} wherein the Contractor submitted Delay
Notice No. 1012 regarding alleged delays to Contractor's PCA Pit Works due to the Inaction and/or
Outstanding Works of the Employer's Other Contractor (L&T).
The Engineer records that the submitted Delay Notice is not in accordance with Clause 27.1.1 of the
Conditions of Contract as it was not provided within the required 28 days from the date the Contractor
became aware of the alleged delay event.
Moreover, the information included in the above correspondence is inaccurate and doesn't represent
the actual situation. The enclosed summary status provides evidence of formal handover of 10 PCA Pit
and photographs for two PCA Pits that have been handed over lately (25.1 and 44.1}.
The Engineer highlights the Contractor's obligation to submit a fully detailed claim in accordance with
the requirements of Clause 27 .1.5 within 42 days from the date of the events which allegedly gave rise
to the alleged delay. Furthermore, the Contractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in
accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within 28 days in order to enable us to review any entitlement the
Contractor may have for additional time and/or cost.
In addition, the Contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delays as required under Clause 16.5.3 of the Conditions of Contract.
Compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential as t his will form part of the basis
of
the Engineer's assessment of the Co ntractor's submitted delaying events.

Subject:

Notice to Correct

Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous numerous correspondences regarding your failure to proceed with the
works accordingly, described hereunder and we hereby inform you the following.
Despite our numerous reminders and correspondences, you have not improved your work performance
and have not provided sufficient support to the project. At the time of writing this letter, you have failed
your Contractual Obligations to manage your works which consequently puts the Project’s Milestones at
risk.
In view of the above, you are informed that the situation is affecting the performance and obligations of
the Contractor under the Contract. Consequently, if you do not take all appropriate measures to rectify
your failures immediately, you will be held liable for the consequences arising out of such failures
pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Therefore, in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and take action for
the following issues:
1.
SS Cladding in the Mock-Up has to be completed immediately. According to your program of
works which was submitted via your letter reference PML-AA-MTC-LETTER-2018-0009-1 dated 13th
March 2018, the completion date was 7th March 2018 but you failed to complete accordingly. You are
now strictly expected to complete these works by 28th March 2018.
2.
You are instructed to immediately start and complete the Cladding works in P4 which have to be
done in parallel with the works executed in the Mock-Up.
3.
It has come to our attention that the procurement of cladding materials might not have
commenced yet. There is absolutely no excuse that can be given as to why all of the mentioned
materials are not available on site to date. You are hereby informed that since the cladding materials
have been approved on 17th January 2018 via Material Submittal reference MS-1437, you were
expected to start the procurement immediately on the stated date; your failure to do so in this regard is
noted. In the event whereby the aforementioned proves to be truthful and you indeed have not
commenced the procurement of the said materials, you will be held fully responsible for any delays.
Consequently, you will be held fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such failure and the
associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under the Contract with
the Employer. You are therefore instructed to provide all documentation from the factory, within 7 days
of receipt of this letter, to verify the status of the said materials.

Moreover, in the event that you are unable to provide the required information within 7 days of receipt
of this letter, we will place a QC monitor at your factories to ensure that the products are in fabrication
and meet the Project Requirements. Please note that any and all costs related to the abovementioned
will be charged to you pursuant to Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].
In view of the above, you are informed that we and the Engineer will take appropriate action to ensure
that the procurement of materials has indeed commenced. Hence, you are informed that next week, we
will visit your supplier’s factory to verify whether the materials are in fabrication or not. Consequently,
you are requested to arrange a suitable time and day next week for the said visit of the Contractor’s and
the Engineer’s representatives.
4.
The lack of manpower is also evidenced in the Project, which you have previously been
instructed to increase and take remedial measures but failed to do so. Please note that your failure to
use the required resources as instructed constitutes a breach of Contract. Consequently, your attention
is drawn to Subcontract Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] which sets out your obligations as:
"8.1.2 The Subcontractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that it completes the Subcontract
Works, and each and every part of the Subcontract Works, in such manner and in such time so as to
allow the Contractor to comply with any obligations under the Contract … The Subcontractor shall
neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of the Contractor or other subcontractors. The
Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works as the Contractor
may reasonably instruct... The Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources
accelerate its performance, work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as
necessary to maintain progress of the Subcontract Works.",
Please note that there is a Royal visit on 1st April 2018 and that GH 42 and GH 45 have to be completed
by then. Also, note that the Testing and Commissioning Milestones for Pier 4 are fast approaching. You
are therefore instructed to comply with the instruction discussed herein and proceed expeditiously and
without delay with all required resources to complete the works.
Your attention is also drawn to your submitted Programme of Works via your letter reference PML-AAMTC-LETTER-2018-0009-1 dated 13th March 2018, in which you provided the Milestone dates for
completion. Please note that you are already failing to meet the dates which you provided i.e. Pier 3
completion date was meant to be completed by 19th February 2018 and Pier 4 completion date as per
your programme is fast approcaching which is 27th March 2018.
You are therefore instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to ensure that all
available resources are deployed on site within 48 hours of receipt of this letter. Be informed that in
case you fail to comply with this instruction, we will have no other option than to take all necessary
measures to deploy all required resources on your behalf, which you will be backcharged accordingly as
per Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims].

5.
The delay in submitting all required shop drawings as per your Contractual Obligation is also
noted. You are therefore instructed to submit all shopdrawings related to these works, immediately.
6.
You previously requested additional scaffolding from us, which we have provided; however, you
refused to use the scaffolding provided. As a result, you are informed that the provision of scaffolding
(approved as per the HSE requirement), is under your responsibility and you are required to provide it
accordingly. Furthermore, note that you will be backcharged for the scaffolding purchased by us on your
behalf.
We hereby inform you that if action is not taken as stated above, you will be in breach of the
Subcontract provisions in accordance with but not limited to Clause 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations] due
to the foregoing. You are further informed that we will no longer tolerate your conduct in respect to this
matter which may cause delays to the Subcontract Works for which you shall be held solely responsible.
To conclude, we summarize below the actions required to be taken by you to mitigate the mentioned
delays:
•
Complete SS Cladding works in the Mock-Up immediately;
•
Start and complete Cladding works in P4 immediately;
•
Provide proof that procurement of cladding materials has commenced;
•
Arrange a meeting next week at your supplier’s factory for our and the Engineer’s
representatives, to inspect the fabrication of the cladding materials;
•
Increase your manpower and all required resources immediately and within 48 hours of receipt
of this letter;
•
Ensure GH 42 and GH 45 works are completed before the Royal Visit on 1st April 2018;
•
Submit all shopdrawings immediately;
•
Scaffolding material is your responsibility and shall be provided by you.
In view of the above, we hereby give you a Notice to Correct under the Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice
to Correct] to expedite the Subcontract Works immediately. At this juncture, we must emphasize once
more that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
