Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter referenced (1) and other numerous correspondences exchanged between us
in regards to delays and lack of work-fronts, we respond as follows.
We reiterate that we continue to be available at all times to ensure good communication for the smooth
progression of the works. We acknowledge the difficulties that all of the parties involved in a project of
this magnitude face, however, we trust that all can be resolved by taking appropriate actions.
There have been numerous correspondences exchanged regarding delays and lack of work fronts
between us and we would like to realistically point out some of the things that can ease the processes in
an effort to complete the works on time.
In light of the above, please note that good communication and coordination are crucial and should be
followed at all times for the avoidance of delays and similar unwanted future events. We acknowledge
the fact that in some areas such as CP level 2.0 and above, you are ahead of the targeted programme,
however, in some other areas you are not progressing and you are falling behind the programme. Our
aim is to assist you by all possible means to progress in all areas satisfactorily and ensure that the target
programme dates are met throughout the project. As mentioned above, this can only be done with your
cooperation and adequate communication which in some cases is not sufficient.
An example of lack of communication and coordination is the fact that for the last two weeks you have
demobilized 2 nr. screed pumps and a significant number of manpower from the site without prior
notification and it has significantly affected the progress of the works which are currently progressing
extremely slowly.
An experienced contractor of the extent of M/S Mosart working in this challenging project should have
anticipated some of the difficulties encountered in the project with respect to coordinating your works
and should have allowed flexibility in the programme by having in place mitigation strategies. Moreover,
the activities of other trades involved in the project and the complexities raised in regards to
coordination should have been taken into consideration and mitigation measures should have been
readily available. Therefore, we trust that you have the capacity to take all mitigation measures,
increase your resources to the required level and ensure that the works are progressing without delay
and are completed on time.
In view of the above and as per our previous numerous correspondences, you are instructed pursuant to
Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to provide an action plan and a labour histogram providing
mitigation measures to complete the open work-fronts. Also, you are requested, to coordinate your
works in a proper sequence by means of continuous communication with our construction team and
other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely completion of the works.

This is for your attention and further action.
Yours faithfully,
