Subject:Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic – Further Update
MTB Main Office and Construction Site Closure from 09:30 am on Thursday 9 April 2020 and CCC
Labour Camp Lockdowns due to COVID-19 Testing of Labour
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our previous letters associated with the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic, including but not
necessarily limited to those referenced above, and herewith advise you of the following two matters:
Firstly, owing to confirmed cases of COVID-19, the MTB Main Office and Construction Site was forced to
close from 09:30 am on Thursday 9 April 2020, and our office staff, labour and subcontractors ordered

to leave site. Following which, an intensive programme of disinfection was undertaken. The Main
Office re-opened on Saturday 11 April 2020 and Site Work resumed to the extent that it was able to [see
below].
Secondly, and also during the morning of Thursday 9 April 2020, one of the labour camps operated by
one of the JV partners (CCC), Camp Hameem, housing circa 1,480 labour, was put into ‘lock-down’ and
labour prevented from attending Site. The reasons for this were (1) to undertake COVID-19 testing of
the labour that exhibited initial signs of the virus (high fever) and (2) to undertake intensive disinfection
of the camp.
This has had a detrimental impact on our site operations, as the majority of our site operatives and
skilled labours, as well as drivers, are provided by CCC. Hence transportation, site support such as water
tankers, welfare and cleaning staff, timekeeping team, FM team, PMV team were unable to perform as
required.
Nevertheless, during the weekend circa 60 labour were sent for COVID-19 testing and the results of
these tests are likely to be available within the next 2-3 working days. However, while approximately
100 labour returned to Site today (Sunday 12 April 2020), albeit for critical operations only, we are
anticipating that the remaining balance can return to Site and resume work tomorrow (Monday 13 April
2020).
As previously stated, we will continue to keep you appraised of all COVID-19 related matters as and
when necessary, but it is self-evident that this is continuing to have a substantial delaying and disruptive
impact on our ability to fulfil our obligations under the Contract. Notwithstanding, we again reiterate
our request for guidance from you, as the Employer for the Project, as to how best manage the current
situation to minimise the risk of exposure to the virus to all associated with the Project and the wider
UAE public also.
Yours faithfully,
