Subject: BIM Delays
Dear Sir,
TCAJV' s letter ref: MTB/TCA/WMS/L/000071 dated OS May 2015

We hereby write with reference to the above subject and further to our numerous previous
correspondence, meetings, workshops including, but not limited to, that referred to above and express
our concerns regarding your failure to fulfill your Subcontract obligations in regards to BIM deliverables
(EDI, Models submission, BIM activities etc.) and Implementation Plan in a timely manner.
We note that you have consistently failed not only to furnish sufficient skilled BIM resources, services
and/or to provide the required competent BIM staff but also to meet basic BIM deliverables to make
timely progress within your BIM contractual obligations under, including, the Specification, Section
019800 [Building Information Modelling {BIM)], Section 013300 [Submital Procedures], 013105
[Contractor's Master System Integration {MSI} Team], 017700 [Project Close Out], and 019500
[Requirements For Facilities Management and Maintenance]. Moreover, you have failed to meet your
BIM
targets, with the deliverables severely behind schedule, with no intention/effort to mitigate from your
side. By way of example, refer to the below table which shows your progress as of 31 May 2015:
Furthermore, as you are aware, the continuous absence in coordination and/or delay in completion of
your Project Models at all levels of developments beyond the presently-established construction target
dates have led to imposition of unpredicted consequences on Site not only at open fronts, but also at
finished areas.
You are hereby required immediately to comply with your contractual obligations regarding BIM, to
comply, provide, finalize and submit BIM activities according to BIM procedures and Models for
coordination, provide all necessary resources, and arrange for timely BIM deliveries to meet project BIM
scheduled completion date.
You are also required to submit, within three days of the receipt of this letter, your mitigation plan
including all necessary resources, and demonstrate your ability to meet Project BIM scheduled
completion
date. Should you fail to do so, TCAJV shall either de-scope your BIM Scope or determine what actions
should be taken to assure timely BIM completion. It is noted that you shall be held responsible for any
loss, damages and/or extra expense TCAJV and/or other affected trades may incur as a result of your
delays in the BIM progress and in the completion of your BIM Coordination Models at LOD 400 on the
Project including the costs for TCAJV's BIM Team's engagement(s) incurred in assisting, supporting,
educating and even rendering on your behalf your Scope of Work not to hinder the BIM Coordination
process which shall be backcharged to your account.
This above is for your immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
