Subject: Briefing Packs Change Management Team
Dear Sir,
The Engineer's letter (1), issued in response to Contractor letter (2), has stated that "non-relevant"
personnel is defined, by the Engineer, as Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The
Engineer has further gone on to state in letter (1) that the request and agreement for the briefing pack
change management team was for technical resources only.
At the outset, the Contractor would like to record its disappointment with the contents of Engineer's
letter (1), as well as the stance the Engineer has taken on this issue thus far. The Engineer is reminded
that
the participation of the Contractor in the briefing pack process was a voluntary process. The Contractor
participated in good faith, in the interest of the progression of the Works and to assist the Employer in
rectifying and completing the Employer's incomplete and uncoordinated design. The Engineer is aware
that the participation of the Contractor in the briefing pack process is not an Employer entitlement
under
the Contract.
The Engineer has referred to the proposal attached to Contractor letter (3) as the basis for the
Engineer's
rejection of the timesheets of the Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The Engineer

has however failed to recognise ROM ref (4) which formed part of the Contractor's proposal issued via
letter (3) . The ROM ref (4) identified the requirement for Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial
resources .
Furthermore, Engineer's Instruction (EI) no 323 states that "You are hereby instructed, pursuant to
Clause
20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Contract, to appoint and implement competent and sufficient resources
to
address the completion of all design items ...... ". Following receipt of El no 323, the Contractor complied
with the instruction and ensured that competent and sufficient resources were deployed to assist the
Employer's Design Consultants in concluding the design. These competent resources included but were
not limited to: Technical staff, Planners, Quantity Surveyors and Commercial resources. The Contractor
having complied with the instruction of the Engineer is now being deprived of its entitlement under the
Contract. As previously mentioned in letter (2) all the time claimed by the Contractor is for actual hours
spent by personnel of the Contractor (and its Subcontractors') who were directly involved in assisting
the
Employer's Design Consultants during the briefing pack process. The Contractor, pursuant to clause 11.4,
insists that the Engineer assess the final value of the Variation
Order in a fair manner, taking into account all relevant circumstances but paying particular regard to the
obligation of the Contractor under the Contract in relation to assisting the Employer to complete its
design.
The Contractor looks forward to the speedy resolution of this issue.
Yours faithfully,
