Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0112
Engineer’s Response to RFI/0401/17181 – Failure to Provide Confirmation on Requirement for
Additional Bollards at Departure Level (DAS – Level L2.0)
– Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same
The Event(s):
On 5 and 29 May 2019, we submitted the following Shop Drawing Submittals seeking your approval of
the L2.0 South Expansion Joint Road & Curb Transition Levels Details and Landside Service Road (PR6 &
7) North Side MTL & MTB Intersection Setting Out Plan & Details at Departure Curb appended thereto –
consisting of a total of nine (9) Shop Drawings, in the manner shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Item Date submitted Submittal Ref Rev
Description of Contents Response Due Specification
Section 013300 Response received
Status Code
Overdue By
1
05-May-19
SDS/0401/C/0351
01
L2.0 South Expansion Joint Road & Curb
Transition Levels Details
[6 shop drawings attached thereto]
19-May-19
20-May-19
3
1 day
2
26-May-19
SDS/0401/C/0354
01
Landside Service Road (PR6 & 7) North Side MTL
& MTB Intersection Setting Out Plan & Details at Departure Curb
[3 shop drawings attached thereto]
09-Jun-19
10-Jun-19
3
1 day
This shows that both submittals were returned 1 calendar day later than the review times expressly
stated in the Contract (i.e. Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’).
Meanwhile, it is worth noting that attached to the above submittals were inter alia, the following:
1.
Shop Drawing No: 401-JV-C-01-SR-0.00-SRL-SD-193 Rev. 01
2.
Shop Drawing No: 401-JV-C-01-SR-0.00-SRL-SD-197 Rev. 00
Notably, both Shop Drawings had not only been returned Status Code 3 but were annotated with a
series of comments that include references to ‘missing bollards’ (Figure 1 and Figure 2 below, refers).

Figure 1 – Extract from SD No: 401-JV-C-01-SR-0.00-SRL-SD-193 Rev. 01
L2.0 South Expansion Joint Road & Curb Transition Levels Details
Figure 2 – Extract from SD No: 401-JV-C-01-SR-0.00-SRL-SD-197 Rev. 00
Landside Service Road North Side MTL & MTB Intersection Setting Out Plan & Details
Given that we had constructed the Works to these areas in accordance with IFC Drawings and / or in
accordance with the sketches generated in consequence of Briefing Pack design development meetings
and issued to us as IFC, we were appreciably surprised to be informed on ‘missing bollards’. Hence the
reason why we raised RFI/0401/17181 on 9 June 2019, seeking further clarification from you as to the
requirement for additional bollards to the expansion joint areas shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2 above.
In the event that bollards were required, we asked to be provided with a full design and fixation details.
Firstly however, despite us requesting a response to RFI/0401/17181 by 15 June 1019, you failed to
reply until 18 calendar days later i.e. on 3 July 2019. Secondly, rather than address the issue directly and
answer the questions being raised within the RFI, you elected to provide a convoluted response.
Amongst other things, you advised that our Shop Drawings were “irrelevant” and referred us to other
Shop Drawings that you said would provide the coordinates of the bollards. You further stated that we
were to coordinate the bollards with the MTL Contractor and that somehow we failed to do so as well as
purportedly fail to coordinate with our own team. In relation to which you alleged that we failed on
potentially similar comments given two years ago; and that we are to provide the bollards.
For the reasons explained below, we refute your allegations in their entirety.
1.
The ‘missing bollards’ i.e. the bollards that you identified as missing and that you now allege are
required, are not shown on any IFC Drawings, nor were they shown on any marked up sketches issued
during the Briefing Pack design development process and returned as IFC.
2.
That said, we have previously informed you that bollards shown in your marked up comments
are incapable of being constructed / located in the precise location indicated owing to the fact you
require them to be constructed at or immediately adjacent the expansion joints, i.e. the structure of the
expansion joint contains ‘side boxes’ that physically prevents installation.
3.
While we acknowledge that we are obligated to coordinate our work with the works of others –
we are not responsible for the design nor are we responsible for the completion of that design in the
event that certain components – which in any event are insisted upon by you – are ‘missing’. It is your
role and that of the Employer’s Design Consultant to coordinate the design and if in the event you
require additional works, which this clearly is, then it is your / the Employer’s Design Consultant’s
responsibility to provide a fully coordinated fully complete design by way of IFC Drawings and Details
and an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction.
In summary, the comments detailed on our Shop Drawings as well as those detailed in the response to
RFI/0401/17181 point to work that is additional to our existing scope of Works and will necessitate that
you issue revised IFC Drawings reflecting the requirements for additional bollards under an Engineer’s
Instruction / Variation Order, if you require the additional work to be undertaken by us.
We therefore take this opportunity in again reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing any changes to the bollards as noted above and will
continue with the Works in accordance with the current IFC Drawings. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:

Any requirement for additional works, in this case, additional bollards at such a late stage of the Project,
is very likely to impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
It is for this reason therefore that we issue this E-Notice requesting your prompt action, guidance,
decision or further instruction as may be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to
mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works. This includes without limitation:
1.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within ten (10) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
