
Dear Sir,
We refer to Delay Notice No. 86 dated 26 March 2014 {ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/ L/001693) associated
with the
delays to the MV Cable Installations, which the Engineer acknowledged on 22 April 2014, via letter ref:
MTCCMATCA-0401-LTR-01415, assigning it reference 'C/Time/0086' and 'C/Cost/0086'.
Pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.3, we write to advise the Engineer of further delays
and
disruption being caused to the MV Cable Installations attributable to the various acts or omissions of
"others", which we maintain are causes that are the Employer's responsibility.
With reference to the above noted correspondence, we draw your attention to t he following :
a) Delays in completion of Other Contractor's works;
b) Defective works of Other Contractor's;
c) Insufficient extent of Other Contractor's works.
ABUAs a result we are unable to resume the Works in a reasonable fashion until the issues associated
with the
failure of the Other Contractor to complete MV duct-bank and ancillary works in qualitatively
satisfactory
manner and to the extent in order to allow us to resume and progress without further stoppages,
disruptions due to failure to inspect and accept works in advance of instructing us to undertake the
cable
pulling Works.
Failure to complete duct bank works will further impact the MV cable completion and is likely to impact
the
Time for Completion of Contract Milestones no. 6, 7 and 8.
You are hereby advised that we have relied on the Engineer's instruction to proceed with our Works.
However, for the reason's provided above, the MV cable pulling activities on the North side of the MTB
have
been effectively suspended as of 17 July 2014 due to lack available work fronts. A copy of ANEL letter
reference MTB-AN EL-TCA-L-0806 dated 16 July 2014 is attached for your reference.
Kindly address the above in order to allow us to re-commence the MV Cable Works, without further

disruptions and stoppages by redressing the necessary compliance by the Other Contractor in order to
minimize the on-going critical delays.
We look forward to the Engineer's prov1s1on of a responsible Right of Access based on documented
acceptance of completed works by Other Contractors.
Meanwhile, we are continuing to review the foregoing and the history of events generally associated
with
the delays to MV Cable Installations, in order to assess the full extent of delay and the impact that such
delay
has, and is continuing to have on the Works; the outcome of which will be submitted to the Engineer in
due
course, pursuant to the requirement of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5.
Given the direct correlation between the content and attachments to this letter and the content of
Delay
Notice No. 86 dated 26 March 2014 (letter ref: 001693}, then the detailed particulars associated with
the
delay to the Works caused by the foregoing, will be addressed within Claim C/Time/0086.
Yours faithfully
