Subject :

Re: Notice to Correct Retail Downstands in CP Area

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (7) above pertaining to the aforementioned subject
which you attempted to conceal your own delays.
Please note that, your statements in your letter referenced (7) above, are in fact incorrect and show
your deliberate misinterpretation of your own commitments. Below is the history of events:
1)
We have received Engineer’s Instruction via MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06738 dated 24th January
2017 and issued you the same with Contractor’s Instruction via letter (1) referenced above.
2)
You have submitted your cost via MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2195 referenced (2) above.
3)
You have refused to proceed with the works on site without a Variation Order which is a clear
breach of the Subcontract Agreement (Attachment –1).
4)
We have issued you the Variation Order-19 with letter referenced (3) above with the agreed
amount which you have accepted with response letter referenced (4) above dated 10th August 2017.
5)
Please note that pursuant to Clause 16.5.7, 16.5.8 and 16.5.9 [Extension of Subcontract Time for
Completion] of our Subcontract Agreement regarding the Employer’s Culpable Events, we shall not be

liable to pay any additional Costs unless we have agreed to that Cost, in writing (including written
agreement with the Employer/Engineer). This is in line with the Employer’s connected Claims under the
Contract Clause(s) which you have acknowledged while signing your Subcontract Agreement. Although
the Engineer’s assessment and certification of the subject Variation Order has not been received yet, as
a gesture of good will we have issued you the said Variation Order for “Supply and Installation of CP
Retail Smoke Downstands” amounting to AED 4,466,482.67.
6)
However, your continuous failure to proceed and cooperate on site has been evident. Although
you were (and continue to be) in breach of your Subcontract as per your aforementioned failures, in
order to help you and ensure the smooth progress of works on site, our Construction Manager agreed to
assign another Subcontractor, some portion of Structural Steel Supports which is under VO-19 as seen in
the enclosed highlighted drawing (Attachment-2). In view of the above failures and pursuant to Clause
11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor], we hereby inform you that we will issue an official instruction for
the Omission of works for these areas in the form of a Negative Variation Order.
We have done everything all in good faith even when you were in breach of the Subcontract, by issuing
to you Notice to Correct via letter referenced (6) above, requesting you to provide a response including
specific dates of completion, which you failed to do so. Please note that at the time of writing this email,
we are still awaiting the said information from you regarding the updated schedule showing current
progress and anticipated completion dates as seen in the enclosed email from Clint Nisbet dated
February 19th 2018. (Attachment-3)
In response to your statement in your letter reference (7), wherein you alleged that you have not had
sufficient work-front. We refute your allegations and clarify for the record that you currently have
enough work-front as described below:
7)
Please be reminded that overall work-fronts have been available to an appropriate level to
progress accordingly and your alleged “lack of MEP clearance” statement is incorrect and not
acceptable.
8)
Your statement “priority of installation has been changed a few times by TCAJV after erecting
the scaffolding” is again incorrect. This has been done to facilitate with your works and align with
Client’s requirements.
9)
Your statement that “M/s Cloisall cannot start installing the GRG until the GRC is properly
aligned” is incorrect. Your lack of coordination is noted on this matter and you shall not be excused for
not proceeding with the material fabrication and consequently proceeding with the available areas by
cooperating with our Construction team as per your Contractual Obligations.
10)
You have also failed to coordinate and submit your BIM Models on a timely manner. We have
shared all reference BIM Models related to Central Prcessor Level 20 services with you on 23rd January
2017, to enable you to coordinate retail downstand design along with the adjacent MEP services
(Attachment -4). However, you have failed to do so. BIM Models have been submitted recently on 8th
February 2018 (Attachment-7). Please be informed that your lack of diligence while performing your
duties is affecting the overall performance of your work package and causing delays and costs to followon trades as stated in the enclosed letter from PCEJV referenced MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/04348 dated 21st
February 2018 and our highlighted drawing for the relevant subject (Attachments-5 & 6). Any delays,
costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us arising as a result of your failure including to
complete the BIM deliverables on time will be solely your responsibility.
All of the above, is a failure of your Subcontract Obligations, pursuant to the provisions under Clause
12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and particularly Clause
12.11.2, wherein “The Subcontractor shall be responsible for its construction activities on the Site, and

shall coordinate its own activities with those of the Consultants and Other Subcontractors so as not to
obstruct, disrupt or delay work being performed by the Consultants and Other Subcontractors”.
In light of the above, in the event whereby you consider that delays are caused on site due the
unsubstantiated allegations provided in your letter, then you are requested to provide details
demonstrating how these delays are affecting your Programme of Works by providing supporting
evidence and delay analysis. Moreover, pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time
Impact Analysis for each alleged delay event has to be provided, showing what effect each event has
had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays.
Your statement that “Furthermore, the disagreements & non approval of the EOT claims with M/s. TCA
JV has affected our cash flows and this in turn affected the payments to Cloisall's subcontractors. Thus
M/s. Cloisall has lost a considerable number of its manpower due to the non payment issues with the
man power suppliers working with M/s. Cloisall. As you are aware the EOT claims are still not finalized.”
is also baseless. Be informed that the management of Sub-Subcontractor(s) forms an integral part of
your Contractual Obligations pursuant but not limited to Clause 12.9 [Subcontracting]. The fact that you
have stated your failure to administer your Subcontractor(s) is in fact an admittance of delaying the
works on site due to Sub-Subcontract mismanagement. We do not have any control, whatsoever, over
your financial agreements with your Subcontractor(s), therefore we cannot be held liable.
You are well aware of our efforts for a determination on EOT claims. You are also aware of the fact that,
costs associated with Extension of Time related to the Employer’s Culpable events, can only be paid
upon the approval and certification from the Engineer for the same. We are liaising continuously with
all the involved parties (i.e. the Engineer/Employer) in order to conclude the soonest. However, we will
not be in a position to conclude your EOT submission unless and until a sufficient substantiation is
provided by you, as discussed in previous correspondences.
Moreover, we have already assisted you by providing on-account payments of AED 40,000,000.00 in
June-2017 with Amendment Agreement -3 to improve your cash flow, of which we have only recovered
AED 3,333,333.34, as per your progress of works. We have also paid an additional amount of AED
21,698,818 which is actually the amount for the forecasted period of 3 months of Material Procurement.
On top of that we have continued our financial support on your cashflow and released an On account
payment amounting to AED 9,000,000 “against the value of Variations pending the agreement or
determination by the Engineer” divided/allocated into 3 payments in October-17, November-17 and
December-17.
In view of the above, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor]
and the provisions under Clause 16.4 [Recovery of Delays] to immediately start taking mitigation
measures. This can be achieved by working at the available work-fronts and assigning adequate
manpower to recover your own delays and provide us current progress and anticipated completion
dates for the Retail Downstands, as per the established Zones indicated by the Employer.
Therefore, we hereby reiterate our previous “Notice to Correct” which was issued to you via our letter
referenced (6) above pursuant to Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct].
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failures stated herein, will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract

Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors]
and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
