Subject:

Notice of Delay - BIM Delays - EDI Submission

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and further to the official correspondences referenced herein (in
addition to the numerous emails sent to you), we raise our concerns regarding your failure to fulfil your
contractual obligations in relation to the execution of BIM deliverables in a timely manner.
Upon reviewing your current status it is evident that the following shortfalls persist:
You have failed to provide a Track Table and planned dates of submission for your scope of
LOD400 tagged models, refer to email reminders enclosed.
You have failed to provide a QA/QC check list proposal, following the request forwarded to you
in the above correspondence (3).
You have failed to provide a sample for LOD400 tagged model.
You have failed to provide a sample for As-Built LOD500 model.
You have failed to respond and action our requirements forwarded to you via letter ref. (3) and
ref. (4).
You have failed to provide a workflow illustration of how to export native format files into DGN
format.
You have failed to provide IFC compliance certification; confirming that the software used for
modelling is compliant with the IFC 2*3 format.

You are hereby immediately required to complete the above actions and comply with your contractual
obligations by referring to:
Schedule 12 (Specifications) Section 019800 [Building Information Modelling (BIM)], Section
013300 [Submittal Procedures], Section 013113 [Contractor’s Work Coordination Responsibility], Section
017700 [Project Close Out], and Section 019500 [Requirements for Facilities Management and
Maintenance].
BIM Implementation Plan - Sub-Contractors Participation Requirements.
Be reminded that in the event you fail to demonstrate your full compliance towards the above within
twenty one (21) days from the receipt of this letter, MTB TCAJV will proceed with the required actions
on your behalf and will back charge you accordingly. Our BIM department have provided a breakdown
of projected costs based on the resourcing requirements necessary to undertake the aforementioned
tasks (see enclosure B).
In addition to the above, you shall be held responsible for any loss, damages and/or extra expense
TCAJV and/or other affected trades may incur as a result of your delays in the completion of your BIM
obligations. This includes but is not limited to the costs for TCAJV BIM Team's services incurred in
assisting, supporting, educating and even rendering your scope of work on your behalf, so as not to
hinder the BIM coordination process.
Yours faithfully,
