Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0184
Engineer’s Unreasonable Snagging Comments regarding Sprinkler Installation at Pier 4 Sector 4.14C–
Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order to integrate Variation / Change
into Works
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters discussed in Annex A hereto, concern delays associated with the receipt of unreasonable
snagging comments associated with the Sprinklers installation located at Pier 4 Sector 4.14C.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write to notify you of our concern in relation to the following unfounded comment received from
you via the ZUTEC system with Snag ID 211199 in the manner shown in Table 1 below, in relation to the
sprinklers installation located at Pier 4 [above Level L3 ceiling] allegedly not being “…compliant…”
Table 1
Snag ID Date Active /
Passive Level Room /
Area System Defect
Category
Defect Description
211199 24-Nov-19
Passive L20
SUBZONE-5E Sprinklers
24 - Non-compliance with
applicable standard/s “Installation of sprinklers is not compliant for the void area. Sprinklers are
installed to a portion of the void space above Level 3 ceiling, central circular area above plant rooms and
HVAC installation.”
As noted, you allege that the “installation of sprinklers is not compliant for the void area [and that
these] Sprinklers are installed to a portion of the void space above Level 3 ceiling, central circular area
above plant rooms and HVAC installation”. Accordingly we have taken the liberty of attaching a marked
up copy of the approved Shop Drawing No. 401-EF-F-02-31-4.14C-FF-SD-001 indicating the current IFC
design pertaining to the sprinkler requirements to the noted areas which for ease of reference have
been identified as ‘Void Space A’ and ‘Void Space B’ in the manner illustrated in Figure 1 below:

Figure 1 - Extract of Shop Drawing No: 401-EF-F-02-31-4.14C-FF-SD-001
indicates current IFC design requirements to void areas
In this regard, we note that the Works associated with the installation of the sprinkler system located at
the area of L3.1 (HOTEL/OFFICES/LOUNGES) Pier 4 Sector 4.14C, have been completed based on the IFC
Drawings prepared by the Employer’s Design Consultant and issued by you. As mentioned above, the
shopdrawing (Figure 1 refers) representing the IFC scope has also been approved by you.
It is evidently clear that the sprinkler system shown in Figure 1 has been constructed in accordance with
the approved Design. Hence, your statement suggesting that the “Installation of sprinklers is not
compliant for the void area” is erroneous and cannot be accepted and is refuted accordingly.
Given the approved Design, there is no requirement to install a Sprinkler System to ‘Void Space A’ as
shown in Figure 1 above. For this reason we have responded to your comment via ZUTEC as follows:
“Noted. Commented Void area is above the non-combustible room areas (staircase, ELV, SCR, Lift,
Electrical closet) and same was approved without sprinklers. Refer [to] code 1 shop drawing 401-EF-F02-31-4.14C-FF-SD-001 rec-02 CODE 1 attached.”
Furthermore, we note that the Works discussed herein for the Sprinkler System installed at the area of
L3.1 (HOTEL/OFFICES/LOUNGES) Pier 4 Sector 4.14C, have been approved and handed over by us
through Work Inspection Requests (WIR) and Works Completion Inspections (MCI). Consequently, you
had every opportunity to raise any concern in relation to the installation of the Sprinkler System to this
area prior to the handing over of the Works, but you failed to do so.
In summary therefore, any further requirement to install an additional Sprinkler System to the area of
L3.1 (HOTEL/OFFICES/LOUNGES) Pier 4 Sector 4.14C represents a change to the IFC Design.
As you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and this appears
to have been ignored. Hence this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation
Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the express
requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will
continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
