Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0149
Late / Unreasonable Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 – Supplementary Signage
– Request for Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described in
Annex A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concerns delays to the Works due to the Engineer provided response
to MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 associated with a request to determine the location of the signage.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 6 May 2019, we submitted Material Submittal No. MS/0401/A/1752 Rev.00, together with Technical
Data Sheets, Technical Compliance Sheets, Brochure, Photos and samples etc., in support of the 3M
Vinyl Self Adhesive Stickers i.e. Statutory BOH Signage, affixed to inter alia doors and other surfaces;
which you responded to on 18 June 2019 classified Status Code 2 in the manner shown in Table 1.
Table 1
Date submitted Submittal Ref Rev
Description of Contents Response due per Section 013300
Response Received
Status Code
Overdue By (Calendar Days)
06-May-19
MS/0401/A/1752
00
3M Vinyl Self Adhesive Stickers [i.e. Statutory BOH
Signage]
27-May-19
18-Jun-19
2
22 days
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our Submittals. On the basis that Material Submittal No:
MS/0401/A/1752 was at Rev. 00, then this ought to have been responded to within 21 calendar days.
However, Table 1 shows that you exceeded this contractually based review period by 22 calendar days.
Any delay in responding to our submittals at this stage of the project, is wholly unacceptable.

We should also add that all our rights and entitlements to recover the associated additional time and
costs resulting from the aforementioned act(s) of prevention on your part will apply irrespective of any
alleged failure on our part [which is denied], to transmit any submittals to you in a timely manner.
Notwithstanding, while accepting that Material Submittal No: MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 was returned
classified Status Code 2 ‘Exceptions as Noted’, and contained nine ‘General Comments’ and six ‘Detailed
Comments’, one of these detailed comments includes inter alia the following statement: “Contractor to
provide extracted door schedule and drawing elevation where these stickers will be located.”
While accepting that under the provisions of Specification Section 101400 ‘Signage’, we are ‘responsible
for the design of all signage products … to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements in
accordance with the Contract Documents,’ and that we are ‘responsible for developing and completing
the design [of the signage] in accordance with the Contract Documents, and shall provide all items
required for proper completion of the Works …’ we are not responsible for determining the location of
the specified signage; and are certainly not under any obligation whatsoever to “provide extracted door
schedule and drawing elevation where these stickers will be located.” This comment seem to suggest
this is a simple matter and that there is a ‘one size fits all solution’. This is not the case at all. While we
further acknowledge we have been provided a Signage Manual, this provides general information only
relating to the signage such as ‘layout design principles’; it does not provide any detailed information
such as properly coordinated fully complete IFC Drawings showing the precise location for each sign
throughout the entire MTB. This is the responsibility of the Employer’s Design Consultant, not us.
How can we be expected to complete the signage ‘in accordance with the Contract Documents’ if the
Contract Documents [read IFC Drawings] do not indicate the precise location of each sign? It is not it is
not up to us to second guess or otherwise estimate where the BOH Statutory Signage is to be located,
which is what the foregoing statement seems to suggest. We also remind you that it is the Employer’s
Design Consultant’s responsibility to issue us a complete finalised Door Schedule which he has yet to do.
We therefore require properly coordinated fully complete IFC Drawings showing the precise location for
each sign throughout the entire MTB, in order for us to complete our obligations under the Contract.
This request is not new. On 5 May 2014 we raised RFI/0401/5079 advising you of the following in
relation to the Statutory Signage: “There are no location plan drawings, details or spec for the Safety
and Supplementary Signage which is mentioned in Signage Manual, Chapter 8. Please provide.”
However your response to RFI/0401/5079 issued on 19 May 2014, advised us as follows:
“Safety and & Supplementary signage is subject to actual fit out - incl. plant room configuration. Since
much of the BoH spaces are defined by the actual machines (& selected technology), ducting' piping and
(critically) the operational strategy, the statutory signage locations shall be determined when this fit out
is confirmed.”
Therefore, kindly liaise with the Employer’s Design Consultant as necessary to provide us with properly
coordinated fully complete IFC Drawings as soon as possible showing the “statutory signage locations”
together with an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction. Meanwhile, until such time as this is provided,
we are prevented from installing the BOH Statutory Signage throughout the entire Terminal Building.
Potential Impact:
The late response to Material Submittal MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 but predominantly, the unreasonable
comment outlined above, expecting us, rather than the Employer’s Design Consultant to “provide [an]
extracted door schedule and drawing elevation[s] where these stickers will be located”, will severely
delay our ability to complete the BOH Signage for the Project. This has already started to impact on the
Cause and Effect (C&E) inspection to Piers 1, 3 and 4 [evidenced from the attached e-mail from ProFire
dated 11 July 2019 at 10:11 AM, ref: (2)]. If this continues, then this will affect our ability to complete
testing and commissioning; and resultantly invariably impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone
MS09B, and is also likely to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
