AMENDMENT AGREEMENT NO.3
This Amendment Agreement No. 3 (“Amendment Agreement”) is made on the 4th day of March, 2018,
between:
(1)
TCA JOINT VENTURE
(comprising TAV Tepe Akfen Yatirim, Inşaat Ve Işletme A.Ş. (TAV Tepe Akfen Investment, Construction
And Operation JSC), a company established under the laws of Turkey, having its branch office (with
Commercial Licence no. 1180212) at Suruoh Building (804), Muroor (4th) Street, P.O. Box 63312, Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Consolidated Subcontracting Engineering & Procurement S.A.L. (Offshore),
a company established under the laws of Lebanon, having its branch office (with Commercial Licence no.
1146385) at Blue Tower Building, Khalifa Street, P.O. Box 224, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and
Arabtec Construction LLC, a company established under the laws of the United Arab Emirates, having its
registered office (with Commercial Licence no. 1018102) at PO Box 8072, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates (on their own and together the Subcontractor) of the one part, and
(2)
MOSART MARBLE & MOSAIC INTERNATIONAL S.A.L.
a company established under the laws of the UAE having its registered office (with Commercial License
no. CN-1070272) at Musaffah Industrial Area M-37, P.O. Box: 39701, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
(hereinafter the Subcontractor).
The Contractor and the Subcontractor may also be referred to herein singularly as ‘Party’ or together as
‘Parties’.
WHEREAS
A.
The Parties signed a Subcontract dated 1 December 2014 with reference
MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000073 (the “Subcontract”) related to the “Internal Flooring Stone Works
Package” (the “Subcontract Works”) on the Abu Dhabi Midfield Terminal Building project being
executed by the Contractor in terms of a contract (the ‘Contract’) between the Contractor and Abu
Dhabi Airports Company PJSC (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employer’) wherein the Engineer is
identified as AECOM Middle East Limited.
The Subcontract has been amended by:
(i)
Amendment Agreement No:1 (dated 18 February 2015)
(ii)
Amendment Agreement No:2 (dated 29 July 2017)

B.
The Contractor has entered into Amendment Agreement No. 7 with the Employer in order to
facilitate the release of Monthly Advance Payments.

C.
At the request of the Subcontractor, to assist with the Subcontractor’s cash flow, the Parties
have agreed that:
a.
The Contractor will not exercise its right set out in clause 2.2(a) of Amendment No. 2 to recover
equal amounts from payment certificates over a twelve (12) month period starting from the date of the
Advance Payment.
b.

The Contractor shall make payment of Monthly Advance Payments to the Subcontractor,

all subject to the provisions set out herein.
D.
In consequence, and in the best interest of completing the Works, the Parties wish by this
Amendment Agreement No. 3 to amend the Subcontract as set out in this Amendment Agreement No.
3.
IT IS HEREBY AGREED
1
INTERPRETATION
1.1
All clauses, terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall, save as amended by this Amendment
Agreement No. 3 remain in full force and effect.
1.2
Unless the context otherwise suggests, a reference in this Amendment Agreement No. 3 to a
"clause" or a “Schedule” shall be to the corresponding clause or schedule of this Amendment
Agreement No. 3.
1.3
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings provided in the Subcontract.
1.4
This Amendment Agreement No. 3 is supplemental to and shall be read as part of the
Subcontract, which together constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties
hereto. All provisions of the Subcontract shall, save as expressly amended or disapplied by this
Amendment Agreement No. 3, remain in full force and effect.
1.5
The Parties agree that they have entered into this Amendment Agreement No. 3 in good faith
and that it represents a fair and equitable arrangement. The Parties warrant that they are not aware of
anything which would affect the validity or enforceability of this Amendment Agreement No. 3 and will
take all steps necessary to preserve the validity and enforceability of this Amendment Agreement No. 3.
1.6
In this Amendment Agreement No. 3:
1.6.1 “Amendment Effective Date” means 1 March 2018;
1.6.2 “Additional Advance Payment” means the “Additional Advance Payment” provided for in
Amendment No. 2; and
1.6.3 words such as “including”, “such as”, “for instance”, “for example” and any other similar
expressions are to be construed without limitation.
2.
AMENDMENT OF THE SUBCONTRACT
2.1
At the request of the Subcontractor, to assist with the Subcontractor’s cash flow, the Parties
agree to the following provisions with effect from the Amendment Effective Date.
Suspension of Repayment of the Additional Advance Payment
2.2
The Contractor agrees that it will not exercise its right set out in clause 2.2 (a) of Amendment
No. 2 to commence recovery of the Additional Advance Payment and the Additional Advance Payment
shall be repaid
commencing with deduction from the interim payment to be due to the Subcontractor in May 2018.

2.3
For the avoidance of doubt, the total amount repayable in respect of the Additional Advance
Payment shall not be reduced in consequence of clause 2.2.
Monthly Advance Payments
2.4
Subject to Contractor receiving concomitant payments from the Employer under Amendment
Agreement No 7 between the Contractor and the Employer the Contractor will make Monthly Advance
Payments to the Subcontractor.
2.5
Subject to clauses 2.6 to 2.10 inclusive, in addition to the certified amounts payable to the
Subcontractor in January, February, March and April 2018 (the “Relevant Months”), the Contractor shall
make a monthly advance payment (“Monthly Advance Payment”) to the Subcontractor relating to the
Relevant Months in the following sums:
RELEVANT MONTH
MONTHLY ADVANCE PAYMENT (AED)
January 2018 2,500,000 AED
February 2018 2,500,000 AED
March 2018
2,500,000 AED
April 2018
2,500,000 AED
2.6
Subject to clauses 2.7 and 2.8 the Contractor shall certify each Monthly Advance Payment and
the Subcontractor shall render an invoice to the Contractor for each sum so certified.
2.7
Prior to certifying the Monthly Advance Payments relating to each of March and April 2018, the
Contractor shall review:
2.7.1 the Subcontractor’s progress towards completing the activities and events set out in Schedule 1;
and
2.7.2 the Subcontractors performance in achieving their activities required to ensure that the
Contractor attains the following cumulative earned value targets agreed with the Employer:
2.7.2.1. March 2018: 79.66 %
2.7.2.2. April 2018:
81.22 %
2.8
If either (or both) of the Contractor’s reviews referred to in clause 2.7 indicates that:
2.8.1 the performance of the Subcontractor is not sufficient to allow Contractor to achieve cumulative
earned value referred hereabove ; and/or
2.8.2 the Subcontractor’s progress towards achievement of the activities and events set out in
Schedule 1 is not to the - satisfaction of the Contractor (in the Contractor’s sole discretion),
then the Contractor reserves the right to reduce the certified value of the Monthly Advance Payment
relating to the month of the review (by an amount up to and including the full certified value) and, if
necessary, to require accelerated repayment by the Subcontractor of the Monthly Advance Payments
previously paid (in whole or in part) at a rate at the Contractor’s sole discretion (notwithstanding clause
2.9), in order that the Monthly Advance Payments shall be reduced by amounts commensurate with the
actual progress of the Works and extent of achievement of the activities and events set out in Schedule
1. Any such accelerated repayment shall be a debt due by the Subcontractor to the Contractor and
which the Contractor may deduct from any sum due or to become due by the Contractor to the
Subcontractor.
2.9
The Monthly Advance Payments shall be repaid by deductions from interim payments due to
the Subcontractor under the Subcontract. The amount of each deduction shall be such that each of the
Monthly Advance Payments is repaid equally over 12 consecutive interim payments commencing with
deduction from the interim payment to be due to the Subcontractor in May 2018. If any or all of the
Monthly Advance Payments have not been deducted and/or recovered in full prior to the issue of the
final Taking Over Certificate for the Works or prior to termination of the Subcontract under clauses 22,
23 or 26 of the Subcontract, the whole of the balance, of the Monthly Advance Payments, then
outstanding shall become immediately due and payable by the Subcontractor to the Contractor.

Repayment of the Monthly Advance Payments shall be secured against all Performance Securities and
Advance Payment Bonds.
2.10 Under no circumstances (save variation to this Amendment Agreement No. 3 in accordance with
clause 6 below) shall the Subcontractor be entitled to any increase in the Monthly Advance Payments.
3.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
3.1
This Amendment Agreement No. 3, including payment by the Contractor of the Monthly
Advance Payments, does not constitute, and shall not be construed as, an admission of any entitlement
of the Subcontractor to any adjustment to the Time for Completion, payment of additional Cost and/or
any adjustment to the Subcontract Price nor shall it be construed as a waiver by the Subcontractor of
any entitlement (if any) to adjustments to the Time for Completion, payment of additional Cost and/or
adjustment to the Subcontract Price. This Amendment Agreement No. 3, and the rights and the
performance or non-performance of the obligations hereunder, including (without limitation) as to the
Monthly Advance Payments, shall not be deemed to be an instruction under the Subcontract and shall
not affect in any way the Time for Completion, payment of additional Cost and/or the Subcontract Price.
4.
LAW AND JURISDICTION
4.1
This Amendment Agreement No. 3 shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the federal laws of the United Arab Emirates as applied in the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
4.2
Any dispute, difference, controversy or claim of any kind whatsoever that arises or occurs
between the Parties in relation to any matter arising under, out of, or in connection with this
Amendment Agreement No. 3 shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution procedure set
out in clause 27 of the Subcontract.
5.
WAIVERS AND REMEDIES
5.1
A Party can only waive a right or remedy provided in this Amendment Agreement No. 3 or by
law, by express written notice.
5.2
If a Party delays or fails to exercise any power, right or remedy under this Amendment
Agreement No. 3, this will not operate as a waiver of that power, right or remedy, nor will it impair or
prejudice it.
5.3
Any single or partial exercise or waiver of any power, right or remedy will not preclude its
further exercise or the exercise of any other power, right or remedy.
6.
VARIATION
6.1
No amendment or other variation to this Amendment Agreement No. 3 shall be effective unless
it is in writing, is dated and signed by or on behalf of each of the Parties.
7.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
7.1
This Amendment Agreement No. 3 together with any documents appended to it or referred to
in it sets out the whole agreement between the Parties and supersedes any previous arrangement,
understanding or agreement (whether written or oral) between them relating to the subject matter of
this Amendment Agreement No. 3.
7.2
Except as required by law, no terms shall be implied (whether by custom, usage or otherwise)
into this Amendment Agreement No. 3.
7.3
Each Party confirms that, in entering into this Amendment Agreement No. 3 it is not relying on
any statement, representation, assurance or promise made by any person (whether a party to this
Amendment Agreement No. 3 or not) that is not expressly set out in this Amendment Agreement No. 3
or those documents appended to it or referred to in it (Representation).
7.4
Each Party agrees that it has no rights or remedies arising out of or in connection with a
Representation and that its only rights and remedies are set out in this Amendment Agreement No. 3.
7.5
Nothing in this Clause 7 shall limit or exclude any liability for fraud or fraudulent
misrepresentation.

8.
CONFIDENTIALITY AND AUTHORITY TO SIGN
8.1
The Parties and the Engineer shall keep details of this Amendment Agreement No. 3 strictly
confidential and not disclose the contents to any third party, except that the Employer shall have the
right to disclose to any Governmental Authority. This clause shall not apply to any dispute under clause
27 of the Conditions of Subcontract.
8.2
The Parties represent and warrant that the individuals signing this Amendment Agreement No. 3
have the necessary power to execute this Amendment Agreement No. 3 and all necessary corporate,
shareholder, and/or other action and consents have been taken, or as the case may be, received to
authorize such individuals to sign this Amendment Agreement No. 3.
Executed the day and date first above written in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
EXECUTED for and on behalf of
TAV TEPE AKFEN YATIRIM, İNŞAAT VE İŞLETME A.Ş.
(TAV TEPE AKFEN INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND
OPERATION JSC)

SCHEDULE 1
ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS TO BE COMPLETED IN EACH RELEVANT MONTH

February-18
Milestone

March-18
Milestone

April-18 May-18
Milestone
Milestone

- 6,972 m2 of stone flooring to be installed.
- 7,858 m2 of stone flooring to be installed.
- 9,780
m2 of stone flooring to be installed.
- 11,929 m2 of stone flooring to be installed.
- GH 23 , GH 22 , GH 26 , GH 34 , GH 33 , GH 24 , GH 31 , GH 42 , GH 43 , GH 11 to be complete. Complete P4 L20 & L30
- GH 21 , GH 32 , GH 35 , GH 29 , GH 28 , GH 27 , GH 30 , GH 41 , GH 44 , GH 40 , GH 39 , GH 38 , GH 45 ,
GH 36 to be complete. - Complete P3 L20 & L30
- GH 37 , GH 08 , GH 09 , GH 15 , GH 16 , GH 17 , GH 07 , GH 41 , GH 44 , GH 40 , GH 39 , GH 38 , GH 45 ,
GH 36 to be complete. - Complete P2 L20
- GH 06 , GH 48, GH 49.
- 265 No In CB.
Subject:Notice of Delay – Failure to provide Etihad Lounge Doors
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to our trailing email reminder in (3) above regarding the subject matter and
hereby put on record your continuous failure to provide the doors since January 2018. Please be advised
that you have persistently delayed these works and missed several targets to date.
In addition, your shop drawings have been delayed due to your poor choice of sequencing the priorities
you have been given, although you were aware that Etihad Lounge Doors have always been the first
priority for CP area. The aforesaid delays have subsequently delayed the installation of the works to

other trades, which will impact the overall completion in such locations, hence, you will be held fully
responsible for the aforesaid delays.
In light of the above failures, you are reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 8.1.2 [Subcontractor's Obligations], where you are required to proceed with the Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect our performance and/or
Other Subcontractors.
Therefore, you are hereby instructed to commence with these works immediately and show progress by
11th October 2018. Please be advised that failure to do so, will result in TCAJV appointing other
Subcontractors to fabricate and complete the aforesaid works on your behalf. Consequently, all relevant
costs (inclusive of our applicable admin fee) associated with the appointment of such third parties will
be recovered from your account in accordance with Clause 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] of the
Subcontract.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for your immediate action.

Yours faithfully,
