Subject: Remedial works to subsided services- CIPP lining to sewer pipelines
We refer to your above noted letter and regret it appears to have been written in a semi-vacuum of
detail. We would therefore record the facts in this matter:
1. For over six months and the expenditure of around AED 30m to date, we have been
proceeding with these investigation and any remedial works on the basis of the proposed
supplementary agreement that overrides the wording of SAA8 clause 5;
2. The root cause(s) ofthe subsidence has been shown to be matters other than our compliance
with the Contract in respect materials and workmanship;
3. It has been agreed that we will respond only to written Instructions. Your above noted letter
does not comprise an Instruction;
4. We have been urging you and your designers to speed the conclusion of your iterative and
still ongoing investigative works and refer you inter alia to our two letters noted above;
5. Whilst we are manifestly making every effort to provide you and your designers with
solutions, we are not responsible for design in this matter. We require your written
Instructions to provide full IFC design and specification details;
6. It is our understanding that you are fully aware the CIPP materials will take circa 6-8 weeks to
manufacture and deliver by airfreight;
7. Your letter by its reference to an end of June 2019 completion date implies you have different
information in this respect, or perhaps a different source.
We must insist on you issuing an Instruction that recognises the facts in respect of delivery and
therefore installation of this remedial work. Subject to item 7 above we would also request that this
Instruction sets out how it is intended by you that the facilities seemingly required by the ORAT trials
can be provided in order that we can make appropriate arrangements.
Meanwhile, and in the continuing spirit of cooperation, we are placing our order for these CIPP
materials: however, in the light of item 6 above, if this does not meet with your requirements please
confirm by return correspondence so that we can amend or cancel this order according to your
requirements.
Yours faithfully,
