Subject:

Closing Out Engineers Instructions - El 458 A

Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter referenced (3) above, regarding the subject matter, in which you are raising the
issue of a possible Extension of Time and payment of associated costs due to delays attributable to the
Employer and we hereby inform you the following.
The mentioned letter and the alleged delay notice are not compliant with the Terms and Conditions of
the Subcontract. You have not identified the relevant provisions of the Subcontract, which bring the
delay notification notices, Clauses 16.5[Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis].
We also highlight your contractual obligation to submit your notice in accordance with the requirements
of Clause 27.1.1 which states that “The notice shall be given as soon as practicable, and not later than

twenty-one (21) Days after the Subcontractor became aware, or should have become aware, of the
event or circumstance giving rise to such entitlement”, which you failed to do so.
Notwithstanding the matter of fact described above which would allow us to dismiss your letter/notice
outright, going past the confirmation of non-compliance with the Subcontract, we inform you that any
delay notice shall be in accordance with the relevant Clauses of the Subcontract as mentioned above
and shall demonstrate entitlement.
In addition to the above, pursuant to Clause 16.5.3, you should provide evidence that all reasonable
steps to avoid or mitigate the alleged delays have been taken. Also, it is a precondition under the
Subcontract to provide a detailed Time Impact Analysis as per Clause 27.2 showing what effect the
alleged event(s) has had on the programme and demonstrate the Critical Activities and Concurrent
Delays.
Also note that, since we are in receipt of your Prolongation Costs Submission, which is currently under
evaluation, we trust that you have already included this portion of extension of time and associated
costs, within your global Prolongation Costs Submission stated above.
Furthermore, your compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential. Consequently,
it is our position that the notice given under letter referenced (3) above, is not in line with both the
Subcontractor's related notifications and submission obligations prescribed in the Subcontract
Agreement.
Accordingly, we consider the issue closed and expressly reserve our rights under the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
