Subject: Notice of Likely Delay No.2713 Variation Order Confirmation for Additional Steel frame to
support Aluminum Parapet and SS Handrail at the North & South Opaque Bridges

Dear Sir,
With reference to the email correspondence between TCAJV, ARUP, KPF, & ADAC (Ref.2 above) and
Engineer's response to RFI/0401/13533 (Ref.l above), please be advised that the comments,
clarifications
and/or instruction contained therein constitute a Variation.
The Engineer has proposed in the email correspondence and in the RFI response to design, fabricate,
and
install an additional steel frame to support Aluminum Parapet & SS handrail at the edge of north &
south
opaque bridges to compensate the shortage of the bridge extent to support the parapet and the SS
handrail as per detail-1 in IFC drawing no. MTC-A-34-TB-L_._-_._-00.525-02. This Shortage happened due
to a discrepancy between Architectural iFC & Structural iFC.
The Contractor deems the Engineers response to the RFI/0401/13533 constitutes changes and a
variation
is required to carry out the works and overcome deficiencies in the Employer's design.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4(b), the contractor is of the view that the
Engineer
has issued comments, clarification and I or instruction constituting a Variation which are not in the form
of or have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
We are unable to undertake changes pursuant to informally revised drawings or sketches constituting a
Variation without a formal Variation Order or a confirmation of same.
Please issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification as a Variation by means
of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising as a result of abortive
works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or the confirmations mandated by
Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4 and 20.3.1.
Failing to undertake the Engineer's duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the
Works
and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and an increase to the

Contract Price. Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to CoC 9.10.3 that we intend to claim for an
extension of the
Time for Completion and the additional Cost implications.
Yours faithfully
