Subject Violation of ADDC regulation - LV Building Wire Joints, Notice pursuant to Clause
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) to (3) wherein the Engineer recorded its increased
concerns regarding the Contractor's failure to effectively manage the performance of its
Subcontractor (ANEL).
Notwithstanding the seriousness of the issue, to date the Contractor has not presented a coherent
and plausible mitigation plan for the rectification of the defective works of its Subcontractor. The poor
quality of workmanship of your Subcontractor has an adverse effect not only to the quality and safety
of the installation but it also has a cascading delay impact to all associated interfacing works and the
potential to delay the Substantial Completion Date.
It is unacceptable at this critical stage of the Project that the Contractor has not implemented

immediate measures to manage this issue. The management and supervision of your Subcontractor
remains minimal and we evidence daily failures of the QC department and site interface management
by the Contractor to monitor and implement the required quality process.
The Contractor's presentation to ADAC's Chairman on 13 November 2018 attempted to simplify the
root cause ofthe issue and the proposed corrective actions do not address the measures needed to be
taken for the proper management of your Subcontractor, measures for the improvement of the
quality of the Works, and also how you will ensure that all non-compliant works are being replaced to
achieve compliance with the Contract. Last but not least, the Contractor has not presented any
mitigation measures to be implemented to ensure that the Programme of Works for Anel and other
interfacing Contractors and Third Parties shall not be affected.
The Contractor shall focus its efforts to address all the above stated concerns and improve the
unacceptable safety and quality of its Works. Recent examples of the poor workmanship were
recorded on 13 November 2018 for the FDB verification (Form 04-submission) and are as follows:
• Wires are crossed between one trunking to adjacent trunking;
• Cut wires laid inside trunking;
• Cable trunking cover blocked by other services;
• Dust and debris found inside cable trunking;
• Cable overcrowded in cable trunking and congested;
• Cable dressing within trunking not done;
• Exposed wire above false ceiling.
We hereby notify the Contractor that all Works which are found to be non-compliant with the
Contract shall be rejected and the Contractor shall make good the defect and ensure compliance with
the Specifications (Clause 15.4.1 Conditions of Contract). For the avoidance of doubt, and pursuant to
Clause 15.4.3 of the Conditions of Contract, the Contractor shall not be entitled to any extension of
the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional costs and/or adjustment to the Contract Price.
Pursuant to Clause 12.10 of the Conditions of Contract, the Contractor is required to rectify its
Subcontractors performance. The Contractor is requested to immediately address the above stated
concerns.
Yours faithfully,
