Subject Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019
(TIA No.2- Post SAA8)
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted their Consolidated
Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019 and we hereby provide our
assessment pursuant to Clause 27.1.6 of the Conditions of Contract. No costs have been submitted by
the Contractor within its claim (1) which mainly concerns time only.
Having examined the submitted document we note that the Contractor has failed to address the
Engineer's comments provided via correspondence (4) regarding the deficiencies and non-compliance
of TIA No.1. The Contractor's adopted methodology for TIA No.2 is the same as that of TIA No.1 and
thus the previous conveyed comments regarding the contractual compliance and methodology of the
TIA apply as follows:
A. Contractual Compliance
The Contractor and in this submittal (1) and similarly with TIA No 1, has not complied with the
requirements of the Contract and in particular with Clauses 27.1.5 and 27.2 of the Conditions of
Contract. The Contractor has failed to submit both fully detailed claims for the submitted notices and
a separate Time Impact Analysis (TIA) within the contractually stipulated timeframe.
Furthermore, part of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract is to submit a concurrency

analysis as a pre-requisite for any potential entitlement for time to be compensable. The Contractor's
submission does not provide such an analysis nor does it substantiate how it complied with the
provisions of the Contract in this regard. The Contractor merely states that t here are no concurrent
delays.
It is evident that the Contractor has changed the Programme's logic with no demonstration of the
mitigation measures being taken, therefore the updated Programme is not in compliance with either
the Conditions of Contract nor with the Project Control Requirements Clause 1.3.4 which states "The
progress Programme shall conform to all requirements of the Baseline Programme". Clause 1.3.4
further states that " The Employer shall accept this list (Programme logic changes) as part of its overall
Progress Programme submittal review and acceptance process".
The Engineer notes that on numerous occasions it has rejected the Contractor's updated Programmes
due to non-compliance. The Engineer is therefore prevented from effectively assessing the submitted
claims by utilizing these rejected updated Programmes.
In light of the above, the Engineer advises that the Contractor has failed to comply with the Contract
in both the timing of the submission of fully detailed claims for the alleged delaying events and the
methodology and timing of submission of the TIA.
B. Methodology of the TIA
The Contractor's contractual non-compliance with the TIA methodology has been explained in Section
A above.
The Contractor has adopted a non-compliant methodology. This deviation, and according to the
Contractor, made further changes to activities, logic and durations in order to assist the Contractor
accommodate alleged delays which the Contractor claims they have been experiencing and their
mitigation of these delays to the extent that they could. Two relevant points arise from t his additional
deviation that the Contractor has adopted:
(a) In various communications to the Contractor with respect to their periodic Programme
updates, the Engineer has noted that the modifications made by the Contractor to their
periodic Programme updates are unsubstantiated and unjustified and therefore render these
Programme updates to be unreliable. Further, the Contractor is referred to the outstanding
NCR 01061 that is related to the non-compliant progress Programme and Monthly Report
submittals, which remains open. The monthly updates have been rejected and the
Contractor's TIA submission is based on a formally rejected Programme update.
(b) By using a different periodic update as the basis for each TIA window, the analysis is further
and irrecoverably compromised. Notwithstanding the fact that the methodology used by the
Contractor in their previous claim's submissions is outside of recognized industry protocols,
the Contractor's use of different Programmes as the basis for each new Time Impacted
Window further reduces the robustness of the delay analysis and the integrity of any claimed
results derived from it.
The Engineer considers the inclusion of Variations with signed Time and Cost Records to be incorrect
and compromises further the integrity of the delay analysis and the results derived from it. The same
applies to the inclusion of the alleged Subsidence delay event within the analysis.
Before the Engineer could review any further resubmission or new submissions, the TIA's will need to
be adjusted to address the deficiencies stated above. However, prior to this, the monthly updates will
firstly need to be initially corrected to address comments relayed by the Engineer on the monthly
updates before importing each month's progress. The Contractor is referred to the previous"cleanup"
exercise to all its monthly updates of Programme Rev 6.3 that was conducted in 2017 before the
EOT 2 could be assessed (ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-7537, MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-05893,
MTCCMATCA-0401-LTR-05834 etc. ).

C. Basis of Entitlement
The Contractor has included in the submitted TIA {1) 34 No. Notices. The Engineer has reviewed the
basis of entitlement for the claimed events and comments as follows:
• Notice No.107- Engineers Responses to RFI Nos. 16346, 16794, 17087, 17158, 17056, 17157,
and 17185 - Changes to Doors Hardware, Acoustic/ Fire Ratings, SACS, etc.: Request for
Engineer's Instruction I Variation Order
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor regarding the merit of the submitted E-Notice.
The Contractor is referred to Clause 1.2 of Section 013113 of the Specifications wherein it is
stated that the Contractor shall coordinate all works with other trades. The Contractor's raised
RFis demonstrates a lack of the Contractor's coordination amongst the trades. In particular:
)> RFI/0401/16794: As per Bulletin No.254 that was issued under El714 dated 04
December 2017, the Name/Function of Room L01-0184 changed from TBD to APM
Switchgear Room and according to the Bulletin it should have a Gas Suppression
System. The response to the RFI provided the required technical clarification.
Additionally, the Contractor is referred to EI681D which was issued on 23 August 2017
and which fully covers the costs, therefore the Contractor has no entitlement to
additional monies. Furthermore, we note that this issue was known to the Contractor
prior to the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No 8 (SAA8) Effective Date and
Clauses 1.7.2, 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8 apply.
)> RFI/0401/17087: EI681C was issued to the Contractor on 15 August 2017 regarding the
90 minutes fire rating. Furthermore, the fire rating has been updated with Bulletin 245
to align with the fire compartmentation drawing. The Contractor has no entitlement
to additional time and/or cost given that it was a known event prior to SAA8 Effective
Date.
)> RFI/0401/16346: Technical clarification of Access Control between Door and SACS
shedule. Door 88-C-L30-2478.01 SACS Type 2A was issued under El726 in February
2018. The Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost given that it
was a known event prior to SAA8 Effective Date.
)> RFI/0401/17157: According to the response to RFI/0401/14710, the Contractor's
proposal to relocate the fire protection riser inside the circulation room 0595.14 was
not acceptable. The Contractor subsequently proposed covering the exposed pipes by
dry wall type 1-5 and provide a new RHR door for 0603.01 for the accessibility. This
proposal was accepted on the basis that there will be no additional cost and/or impact
to the Programme thus the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or
cost and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
)> RFI/0401/17158: The Contractor, due to the site conditions and as a result of a lack of
coordination, could not install the door at the IFC location and the Contractor then
proposed to fix it at the door's marked location. The Contractor's proposal was
accepted in order to assist the Contractor and there is no entitlement to additional
cost and/or time and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
)> RFI/0401/17056: This RFI was issued by the Contractor as a result of a lack of site
coordination. According to the IFC Drawings, Room 88.C. LI0.0113 .43 AS is designated
as a sto rage room. As per the site installation, the storage room is fully occupied with
the Fire Standpipe and Sprinkler Valve Piping works and can no longer be used as a
storage room. Therefore, the function of the room has changed . Door 0113.01
requires SCS-2A. Again the Contractor's proposal was t o overcome a lack of
coordination and in order to assist the Contractor, this was accepted and therefore
does not provide the Contract or with an entitlement to additional cost and/or time

and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies
);> RFI/0401/17185: This is a discrepancy between the door schedule and the IFC
Architectural drawing. The approved shop drawing includes this door and the
discrepancy amongst the documents should have been highlighted prior to the
fabrication. This is a result of a lack of coordination with the door schedule and the
approved shop drawings. Door no: L30-02375.01 was deleted by El No. 681F as TPS
door. As per the latest IFC Architectural drawing MTC-A-02-TB-L3 .0-5.12-00.642_rev12 and approved shop drawing No. 401-JV-A-04-30-5.12D-GA-SD-003_rev-OO, Door
L30-1375.01 exist in the washroom No. 30.P2 for the Janitor closet. Therefore, the
Contractor has no entitlement to any additional time and/or cost and Clause 2.24 of
SAA8 applies.
• Notice No. 126 - Changes to Contour Levels from the Employer-Request for Engineer's
Instruction {RFEI} I Variation Order {VO}
Regarding the referred changes in levels, areas, crib wall scope and manhole modifications,
these changes were discussed at length with the Contractor and agreement has been reached
with the Contractor, which was merely formalized via the RFI process. The Contractor has
proceeded with the works following these agreements which has not created any additional
scope nor abortive works for the Contractor. The alleged delay resulting from the revised
piping layout for the VVIP water feature was a failure by the Contractor to coordinate these
works and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
The Engineer does not consider the events cited in th is notice to have any impact on the
critical path of the Project and such impact was not demonstrated.
• Notice No.100 -Engineer's Response to RFII0401I17162- Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 Fire
Curtain at Hotel - Changes in Scope: Request for Engineer's Instruction I VO
The Contractor in the submitted E-Notice requested for an Engineer's Instruction and a
Variation. The Engineer responded to the Contractor's request that there is no entitlement to
any additional time and/or cost. Section 083116 para 1.2.C of the Specifications states
"Provide access panels and frames for access to mechanical, plumbing and electrical Work
located behind or above finished walls or ceilings which require access, whether or not such
panels are indicated on Drawings"
Access panels, particularly those in walls, are openings that allow passage for people to access
mechanical spaces/shafts where equipment is located. As many mechanical shafts cross
multiple floor levels, there is a high likelihood that these also cross multiple security zones.
Therefore, any such passageway that allows persons to cross security zones must be equipped
with door position indicators as part of the Security Access Control System (refer to Section
281300 Clause 2.2 D) which states " Each door and shutter that shall allow passage from one
security zone to another shall be provided with a door or shutter position indication. Position
indicators shall monitor and initiate an alarm at an operator workstation based on the settings
of the individual door" As such the door position indicators are required and the RFI response
does not constitute a change and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
• Notice No.99- Engineer's Response to RFII0401I17023- Requirement for Additional Road
Marking at Airside- Request for Engineer's Instruction I Variation Order (VO)
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's
Instruction (EI No785) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in
respect of the additional traffic markings. Until such time the ROM proposal is submitted,
reviewed and a subsequent Variation Order is issued, t he Contract or has no entitlement to
any additional time and/or cos (Clause 2.29 of SAA8) .
Notice No. 94 - Engineer's Failure to Provide IFC to Set-up SACS Initial Database

(RFII0401I16926}
The Contractor has been provided with an update of the required access profile groups as
received from ADAC's Security on 11 June 2019. The profiles were entered into the SACS
system by Atlas and confirmed to the Engineer at the SACS Weekly Progress Meeting No.125.
Any delay that allegedly incurred is attributable to the Contractor's delays in the
implementation of the initial access database. Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8 applies.
• Notice No.103 - Engineer's Response to RFII0401I16957 - Hardware Installation to Doors
with Different Floor Levels: Request for Engineer's Instruction I Variation Order
The information related to the floor level difference has been known and is reflected in the IFC
Drawings, based on the instructed VE by the Employer. The Contractor's door schedules were
also reviewed by the Design Consultant/Engineer and issued by late 2017.
We refer to the Conditions of Contract and in particular to Clauses 13.1.1, 13.1.2, 13.5.1 and
Div. 01 Specification Section 013113, and remind the Contractor of their responsibility to
coordinate and provide detailed coordination drawings for all integrated systems including
doors.
Prior to commencing any works on site, the Contractor shall have in place detailed
coordinated drawings approved by the Engineer. The Contractor shall also field verify the
exact locations and dimensions and other pertinent information of all existing conditions that
are associated with the referred works.
The Contractor has failed to integrate the referred list of doors with floor levels and did not
provide any coordination drawings for the Engineer's review and has been proceeding to
fabrication with a doors schedule and was further installing the doors on site without any
coordination drawings. This is also the case for other components which the Contractor
proceeded with its installation without any coordination (example door height conflict with
ceilings).
We again remind the Contractor of their obligations as per Clause 13.5.1 of the Conditions of
Contract by which the Contractor's execution of the works shall comply with the
Local/Project's technical standard (IBC 2006 for this project) and the Contractor should
highlight any deviation(s) from the applicable Code prior to any fabrication and further
installations on site.
The referred RFI was raised only on 19 March 2019, after the installation of the works on site
which demonstrates the Contractor's failure to adhere to the Contract requirements related
to site installation. In light of the above, the Contractor is required to coordinate the door
detail/hardware with the floor finish based on the direction given in the RFI (the RFI clarified
clearly which 3 doors out of 55 doors queried to have a landing). The RFI response has
addressed the query and provided the Contractor with directions to proceed. As this is a
known event, the provisions of SAA8 Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 applies.
Notice No.0108 - Engineer's Late and Unreasonable Comments to RFII0401I16986 f or
Access Ramps for BHS Rolling Shutter Doors: Request for Engineer's Instruction I VO
The Engineer notes t hat Specification Section 083323 Clause 1.3 A, clearly states "The
Contractor is responsible for the design of connections and fixings f or overhead coiling doors
and related elements, including interfaces and coordination with works of adjoining trades, to
satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements. As scope and performance documents,
the drawings and specifications do not necessarily indicate or describe in detail all
work required for the full performance and completion of the works".
In addition to the above, and as per the performance requirements of Specification Section
013113 (Overhead Coiling Doors) Clause 1.3.A.2, the Contractor shall provide all items
required for the proper completion of the Works without adjustment to the Contract price.

The referred drawing in the Contractor's E-Notice for the rolling shutters was approved with
comments back in 2017 therefore it is considered to be included in the Settlement Agreement
and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8) and moreover the Specifications clearly states the aesthetic and
performance requirements. It was up to the Contractor, to coordinate the requirements in the
Contract drawings and Specifications, highlighting any issues requiring the Engineer's
directions through an RFI in a timely manner, and to prepare the coordinated drawings based
on the clarifications provided in the RFI for an Engineer's approval. The RFI was only recently
raised on 27 March 2019, requesting confirmation of the Contractor's proposal for the change
of the pavement material.
We refer the Contractor to Div. 01 Specification Section 01 3113, and remind the Contractor
of their responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any discrepancies through the
RFI process and not to withhold any information regarding known discrepancies or
requirements.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has any entitlement to additional
time and/or cost given the Contractor's obligations under Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8 and
the other provisions mentioned above.
• Notice No.135- Engineer's Response to RFI-16984 -17 nos Outstanding Door Workshop for
Offices and Lounges- Request for Engineers Instruction (RFEI} and Variation Order (VO}
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's
Instruction (EI No786) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in
respect of the changes to the Door Schedules. The ROM proposal has not been submitted by
the Contractor as of the cut off date of its claim and therefore until such time this is
submitted, reviewed and a subsequent Variation Order is issued, the Contractor has no
entitlement to additional time and/or cost (Clause 2.29 of SAA8).
• Notice No 129 - Provision of Additional Power Supplies to Hold Open Doors to 8 Doors to
Sections 5.16 and 5.21 to Level L0.1- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17164- Request for
IFC Drawings plus Engineers Instruction and Variation Order
The E-Notice refers to the provision of additional power supplies to eight hold open doors to
Level L0.1. As per the Engineer's assessment, this is not considered a change, but a
discrepancy among the Contract documents (Door Schedule and IFC drawings.). The approved
Door Schedule (DS-10833 dated 11 January 2018) includes the hardware set, however this was
not indicated in the electrical IFC layouts. This discrepancy was known to the Contractor since
January 2018 (i.e. prior to the Effective Date of Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8
(SAA8) and so is an included circumstances/event under Clause 1.7.4. However, the Contractor
raised the RFI in May 2019, requesting clarification on this discrepancy. The RFI response has
addressed the query and provided the Contractor with the directions to proceed.
The Contractor is required to highlight such discrepancy and seek directions in a timely
manner. We refer the Contractor to the provisions of Div. 01 of the Specifications Section 01
31 13 and remind the Contractor of their responsibility to coordinate and submit to the
Engineer any discrepancies through the RFI process and not to withhold any information
regarding known discrepancies. Furthermore, according to Clause 2.24 of SAA8, it is deemed
that the Contract or has reviewed the drawings, designs and Specifications and confirmed that
these do not contain any errors.
In light of the above we do not consider the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional
time and/or cost.
• Notice No.116- Delays to Glazing and 3rd Fix installation due to activities of the Employer's
Other Contractor's Works (DEPA - Lifting Frame for Material Shifting)
According to Clause 2.11 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8) in

combination with Clause 12.11 of the Conditions of Contract, the Contractor has an obligation
to provide to the Employer's Other Contractors (including the Fit-Out Contractors) appropriate
opportunities for carrying out their respective works.
In light of the above and upon discussion between all relevant parties, the Contractor
provided a No Objection Certificate (NOC) where approval was provided for preserving the
opening at Level 3.1 until August 2019 for DEPA to be able to perform their works. Therefore,
we do not consider that the Contractor has merit in asserting that they have an entitlement to
additional time and/or cost.
Additionally, and with regard to the Contractor's statement that this issue is critical for the
achievement of Milestone MS09B, we record that Milestone 09B's Completion Date was on 30
June 2019, and the Contractor has failed to achieve it as a result of the numerous Contractor
delays. The status of the works related to Milestone 9B by 30th June 2019 has been notified to
the Contractor via ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11003. Considering the outstanding works
summarized in MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11068, we advise that the Contractor has not
evidenced nor substantiated how this event has had an impact to the overall completion of
MS09B.
• Notice 097 - Delays to ADCD Approval and Obtaining Building Completion Certificate (BCC}
Due to Additional Fire Life Safety Devices Required by House of Expertise
The ADCD package reviews allowed the Design Consultant to cross check for the coordination
between the different FLS systems in the building. Inevitably, this review process identified
some issues which the Contractor has missed in their coordination of the systems. As the
Contractor is aware, any coordination issues identified by the Design Consultant during their
review are the Contractor's responsibility and any potential time impact remains the
responsibility of the Contractor. In addition, the Contractor has not substantiated in their Time
Impact Analysis the alleged impact of this E-Notice to their Programme.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has any entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No.134 - Overdue Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/FC/0127 Rev. 01 - CUSS
Workstation Operating System
The Contractor is reminded that in order to avoid any potential delays, they are required to
submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of the
Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for Completion.
The Contractor has neither evidenced that they have submitted the documents in a timely
manner nor that the "overdue" response has affected their works and impacted t he critical
path.
In light of the above, we do not consider t hat t he Contract or has any entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
Notice No. 113 -Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17064 - Re-introduction of Door No. L300672-01 -Request for Engineer's Instruction (RFEI} I Variation Order (VO}
The submitted E-Notice refers to a discrepancy among the Contract documents (door schedule
and approved shop drawing.) The approved shop drawing (approval date was 19 January
2017) includes the referred door with the door tag. The Engineer's Instruction No. 681F issued
on OS September 2017 indicates the referred door as being deleted. This discrepancy was
known to the Contractor since September 2017 i.e prior to the Effective Date of SAA8 and is
therefore provided for in SAA8 under Clause 1.7.4 (included circumstance).
The RFI was raised by the Contractor only in April 2019, requesting for a clarification. The RFI
response has addressed the query and provided the Contractor with the required directions of
how to proceed. The Contractor is required to highlight any encountered discrepancies and

seek directions in a timely manner. We refer to Div. 01 Specification Section 01 31 13, and
remind the Contractor of their responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any
discrepancies through the RFI process and to withhold any information regarding known
discrepancies. Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies and in light of the above, we do not consider that
the Contractor has an entitlement to additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No.96- Overdue Responses to 538 As-Built Drawings as at 23 May 2019 including but
not limited to Electrical, Mechanical, Local Area Network, Passenger Boarding Bridges
Structural Steel, Elevators and Escalators [issued vide 64 Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is
reminded of their obligations to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3. f
of Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to
the Time for Completion. The Contractor has committed to complete all its submissions by Q4
2018 and unfortunately this was not adhered to.
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of As-Built Drawings will
potentially have an impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and
the Engineer has on numerous occassions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their
own submittal's targets and the dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to additional
time and/or cost.
• Notice No.104 -Overdue Responses to Contractor's MSI Document Submittals at 05
September 2019 Response required
Regarding the potential delay to the Works as a result of alleged delays to the MSI Submittals,
the Engineer's comments are provided in Appendix A.
The Contractor's claim that as a result of overdue responses the ability of their MSI
Subcontractor to procure, deliver and subsequently install any related hardware has been
affected, is refuted . There are no Material Approval Requests included within the summary
provided by the MSI.
We note that many documents were submitted "For Information Only". These are related to
the close-out of the Integration Verification Test phase, however we record that the MSI has
not proceeded to complete the closeout of that phase, subsequent to the Code 1 review of
applicable documents.
We record that the Contractor did not submit the Testing and Commissioning documents in a
timely manner (Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 01 33 00 the Specifications) prior to the scheduled
tests. The Engineer allowed the tests to proceed despite the late submittal of documents
whilst these were still under review.
In light of the above, should any delays be caused to the Programme, these are deemed to be
attributable to the Contractor's late and/or incomplete submissions.
• Notice No.111- Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 0111 [post-SAAB] Engineer's
Pending Confirmation for Outstanding Doors Issues
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's
Instruction (EI No786) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in
respect of the additional Doors. Until such time the ROM proposal be submitted, reviewed
and a subsequent Variation Order is issued, the Contractor has no entitlement to additional
time and/or cost (Clause 2.29 of SAA8). As of the cut off date of the Contractor's TIA, this ROM
was not submitted.
• Notice No.95 - Overdue Responses to 867 Shop Drawings as at 23 May 2019 including but
not limited to Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Landscaping, Ceiling, and
Road Marking Shop Drawings etc. [issued vide 295 Submittals]

The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is
required to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of
the Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for
Completion. The Contractor did not adhere to the Rev. 112 Baseline Programme submission
dates.
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of Shop Drawings will
potentially have an impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and
the Engineer has on numerous occasions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their
own submittals' targets.
In light of the above, the Contractor has not evidenced the alleged delay and thus we do not
consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No. 112- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17181- Failure to Provide Confirmation
on Requirement for Additional Bollards at Departure Level (DAS- Level L2.0) - Request for
Engineer's Instruction I Variation Order (VO)
We note that the referenced delay/disruption event is consequent to the Contractor's failure
to coordinate the exact location of the bollards with the MTL Contractor in accordance with
the Contractor's contractual obligations and failure to act on the Code 2 comments issued
over 2 years back by the Employer's Design Consultant.
Furthermore, the installation of these bollards does not constitute delays to the critical path
of the Project. The Contractor is therefore not entitled for an extension to the Time for
Completion and associated costs arising from the alleged delay event as this is provided for by
Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8 (included circumstance).
• Notice No 130 -Missing General Arrangement Drawings for Security Cameras - Lounge Area
Request f or Provision of Updated IFC Drawings, Missing Elevations & Setting-Out
Information et c. and an Engineer's Instruction/Variation Order
We record that the required coordination with Etihad's Fit-Out Contractor has been done and
the Contractor obtained the required GA and furniture drawings in the CP L2 Etihad 1st Class
Check-In area (lounge). Advance copies of the drawings in CAD and PDF format have been
reviewed and forwarded to t he Contractor on 19 September 2019. The requirements for the
design and location of the 4 FR cameras to be installed by t he Contractor are available in t he
details of the drawings as noted by your Subcontractor (Atlas). With regard to RFI No. 17132
t hat is referred to in the E-Notice, please note that the Engineer has responded to the same
on 17 June 2019. To date, the Contractor has not requested any clarification regarding the 4
FR cameras. Therefore, any potential delays shall be attributed to the Contractor and not the
Employer.
• Notice No 117- Additional Works associated with the Installation of Antennas to Piers 1 to 4
by an Other Contractor- Request for Engineer's Instruction/ Variation Order
The Employer's Other Contractor (COMBA Telecom) has confirmed that there are no
additional cuttings/openings required and therefore the Contractor should have proceeded to
complete any outstanding works instructed under El 748 and hence has no entitlement to a
Variation Order.
The Contractor is therefore not entitled to any time and cost as a result of this.
• Notice No 98- Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 0098, Delays to the Time for
Completion of the Works due to Delays to Receipt of Subsidence Works Instructions and
Subsidence to Other Areas of the MTB
The Engineer has on numerous occasions communicated to the Contractor that the
Contractor has no entitlement pursuant to Clause 5 of SAA8 to any additional time and/or cost
in relation to subsidence and therefore we consider that the submitted Notice has no merit.

Instruction and information was relayed to the Contractor as and when these were available.
The Contractor is reminded of its delays with progressing promptly with the remedial works
and the investigation works that were instructed and conveyed to the Contractor and contrary
to the Contractor's obligation under SAA8.
• Notice No 110- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17162- Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3
Fire Curtain at Hotel- Changes in Scope: Request for Engineer's Instruction/ VO
The submitted E-Notice does not refer to a change in design and does not constitute a change,
but a discrepancy among the Contract documents (IFC drawings, BP sketches and approved
shop drawings.) The information related to the glass wall lining at lift's elevations has been
known in the Contract and IFC Drawings as listed hereunder:
);> IFC Drawings A 02 series for Levels L3.0, L3 .1, L3.2 and L3.3 (Drawing Nos. MTC-A-02TB-L3.0);> 5.32-00.662, MTC-A-02-TB-L3.1-5.32-00.708, MTC-A-02-TB-L3.2-5.32-00.754 and MTCA02-TB-L3 .3-5.32-00.800) refers to A 04 series for Detail Floor Plan .
);> IFC Drawings A 04 series for Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 (Drawing Nos. MTC-A-04-TBL3
.0);> 5.32-00.664, MTC-A-04-TB-L3.1-5.32-00.814, MTC-A-04-TB-L3.2-5.32-00.854 and MTCA04-TB-L3.3-5.32-00.904) refers to Section Detail at Drawing MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._00.197.
);> The section at Drawing MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.197 refers to an enlarged detail 11 in
the Drawing
);> MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.337 indicating Glass Wall Lining GLZ-16.
);> Details for Typical Lift Lobbies at Drawing MTC-A-71-TB-L_. _-_._-00.630 indicates Glass
Wall
);> Lining GLZ-16. This was confirmed through RFC-532 response issued in Tender Bulletin
No. 8 item 26.
The Contractor's Shop Drawings for the Hotel's Architectural General Arrangement Layout
-Central Space Sector 5.178 (Leve ls 3.0 up to 3.2) were also reviewed and approved with
Code 2. The Engineer's comments shown as "Back Painted Glass as per IFC (GLZ-16) as per
IFC detail 11 Drawing A07-337" are to be provided on the lift lobby walls. The signed
sketch 401-FE-A-BP56- L31-L33-5.00-GA-S IFC-001_R00_180718 cannot be the basis for
the omission of the glass wall lining since the drawing's intent is for the smoke curtain
details and not an amended detail for IFC Detail11 Drawing A07-337.
In light of the above, the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost and
considering the Contractor's obligations under Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8.
• Notice No 121 - No response-Kitchen & Smoke Extract Fan Installation in Hotel Building
Level L3.4 Response to RFI/00401/17163 and SDS/0401/M/1375-01
The Contractor's assertions are refuted given that the Contractor has delayed the resolution of
the Design Consultant's provided comments in a timely manner. The Shop Drawings were
rejected by the Design Consultant on the basis of the acoustics concern that the current
assembly may have at the Hotel areas. In order to address the Deisgn Consutlant's concerns
and avoid any abortive works as the installation has been completed, the Engineer and the
Employer agreed the following with the Contractor:
1. The fans will be tested on site and witnessed by CxA in order to address the Design
Consultant's comments.
2. The preliminary tests were carried out in the presence of CxA and further tests are required
for the vibration and testing on permanent power which are pending the Contractor's action.
3. The Engineer followed up on 20 October 2019 and the Contractor informed that both the

permanent power and the specialist testing agency for the vibration will be arranged as well
and this is expected to be confirmed by the end of October 2019 and testing will be conducted
in the first week of November 2019.
4. Depending on the outcome of the test and acceptance by CxA, the approved test pack will
be issued to ADAC in order to confirm compliance with the Contract's requirements.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor's E-Notice has any merit given
the delays by the Contractor in addressing the Design Consultant's comments. Moreover, the
respective test is being delayed as a result of the non-availability of permanent power. The
Contractor has not evidenced how this activity will impact the completion of Milestone MS09C
in view of the current Contractor's ongoing delays to the Project.
• Notice No 127 - Overdue Responses to 1288 Shop Drawings as at 1 August 2019 including
but not limited to Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Ceiling, and Road Marking
Shop Drawings etc. [issued vide 442 Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is
reminded of their obligations to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 3.3. f of
Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to
the Time for Completion. The Contractor has committed to complete all its submissions by Q4
2018 and in accordance with the Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme but unfortunately this was not
adhered to.
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of Shop Drawings will
potentially have an impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and
the Engineer has on numerous occassions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their
own submittals' targets .
In light of t he above, we do not consider t hat the Contract or has an entitlement to additional
time and/or cost.
• Notice No 106 - Delays to Automated Tray Return System (ATRS} Testing - Overdue
Responses to Document Submittal Nos. DS/0401/13480 Rev. 02 (Smart View Matrix SAT
Protocol) and DS/0401/14184 Rev. 01 (ATRS Performance Test Document)
The Engineer refutes the Contractor's assertion and notes that the actual reasons t he
Contract or could not perform t he ATRS equipment performance tests was due to the act ual
site conditions which as of 8 July 2019 were as follows:
1. None (O) of the ninety-five (95) ATRS units (including the related PBSS X-Ray machines) had
any permanent power connections to the floor boxes as a result of the lack in the energization
progress from upstream sources. All units were on temporary construction power only.
2. The performance testing relies on stable permanent, uninterrupted power supplies during
the testing of equipment to properly validate performance.
3. Scaffolding interferences exists above the installed equipment from other trades'
construction activities such as civil, mechanical, ceiling and fit out works that were still
ongoing.
4. At the time of the Contractor's E-Notice there were three (3) ATRS units that were not
physically installed at L2.0 Premium Departure lanes (Sector 5.50). Installation works were still
ongoing at the Etihad First Class lanes L2.0 (Sector 5.52).
The Engineer via various correspondence has notified the Contractor of the delays that
occurred due to the lack of coordination of the various Subcontractors' works, hindering the
ATRS installations and testing. As the Contractor is aware, both the approved Work Inspection
Requests (WIR) and approved Commissioning Inspection Requests (CIR) are the contractual
requirements for measuring the actual work completeness. The Engineer's inspection records
highlight that the Contractor had not completed the full installations and standalone testing

requirements as per the approved Inspection Test Plans (ITP's).
In light of t he above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to additional
time and/or cost.
• Notice No 101 - Gatehouse GH49 - Damage to PCA Pit Due to Grouting Works by Others Update- Further Damage to GH49 PCA pits plus Damage to GH1 PCA Pits
The MTA Contractor has refuted the Contractor's assertions regarding the alleged damage to
the PCA Pit. The Contractor's position that the alleged damages would affect the Contractor
obtaining the BCC is rejected. The Contractor has not evidenced this allegation and the
Engineer notes that the Contractor, and due to his own delays, has failed to achieve Milestone
MS09B by 30 June 2019, thus any delays to the BCC are considered the Contractor's delays.
• Notice No 120 -Delays to Cause and Effect Testing and Commissioning due to Delayed
Response to NOC Request to Create Opening within AMC Walls to Level L3.1 to install Fire
Smoke Damper Actuators, FSD-CS-L3.1-017 and 027 and Failure to Issue an Engineer's
Instruction to rectify damage caused by Other Contractor
The Contractor's allegation regarding the late approval of the requested NOC is refuted and
we advise that the delay is attributable to the Contractor as they did not provide sufficient
information to the Employer's Other Contractor to enable them to approve the requested
NOC. The Contractor provided inaccurate information regarding the numbers, locations and
size of openings thus has prevented the processing of the NOC. This is contrary to the
Contractor's obligations under the Contract and Clause 2.11 of SAA8 for facilitating Fitout
Contractor's works.
In light of the above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No 132 - Provision of Additional Data Outlets for Existing Flight Information Display
Screens to Check-In Island in Sector 5.228 to Level L2.0 - Engineer's Response to
RFI/0401/17254 - Request for Engineer's Instruction and Variation Order
The Contractor in the submitted E-Notice has requested for an Engineer's Instruction in order
to proceed with the two data outlets. It is the Engineer's position that the Contractor has no
entitlement to a Variation Order given that as indicated in the respective drawing, Flight
Information Display Screens are within the Contractor's scope of works and in or r to
operate they require data outlets. The Contractor is referred to its obligations under Clause
2.24 of SAA8.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No 122 - Engineer's Overdue Response to MS/0401/A/1756 and Unreasonable
Engineer's Comments regarding Precast Planters Sealer Application
The Contractor offered the precast planter benchmark for inspection (WIR-17237 Rev.01) and
it was inspected by the Employer, the Engineer and the Design Consultant. To assist the
Contractor with the fabrication of the precast works and the progress of these works, WIR17237 rev. 01 has been released with Code 2 with a caveat that the Contractor applies the
sealer and offers it for inspection.
The Request for an Engineer's Instruction (RFEI) No. 0705 has been received by the Contractor
on 27 November 2018 and the Material Submittal was made on 17 June 2019. The Contractor
has failed to consider the time constraints for this Material submission. The RFEI confirmed
the requirement for a hydrophobic coating.
The Material Submittal MS-A-0401-1756 Rev. 0 was accepted by the Employer with
comments. One of the comments was "The Contractor to provide mock-up/benchmark for
review". On 27 July 2019, the Contractor sent an invitation to both the Employer and the

Engineer for an inspection. There was no request with the submitted approved Method
Statement for the sealer application and no WIR was submitted. To assist the Contractor, both
the Employer and Engineer attended the inspection although the precast mockup was not in
the E2 benchmark due to quality issues as confirmed by the Contractor, and instead was
relocated to Zone 4. The Employer provided his comments and highlighted the main issues;
the surface preparation was unacceptable to receive the sealer application and the approved
samples (with or without sealer) do not match the panels on-site.
Based on the comments provided on 25 August 2019, another inspection was conducted after
applying the sealer on 2 types of surface preparation and again the Contractor failed to
achieve the finish. The application method was not satisfactory to the Employer and it was
observed that the Contractor was not following the manufacturer's recommendations and
procedures as stipulated in the approved data sheet. The delay in submitting the Method
Statement impacted the site works and the subsequent approvals since there is no assurance
that the Contractor is applying the sealer as per the Manufacturer's recommendations.
The Contractor is further referred to its obligations under Clause 2.24 of SAA8.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No 123 -Overdue Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/C/0877 Rev. 01 - Key
Cabinet & Keying Control System
The Engineer considers that the Contractor has failed to evidence that they have complied
with Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300 of the Specifications and to substantiate that the
document was submitted in a timely manner. Furthermore, we note that the Master Keying
development has been delayed due to the Contractor (ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09774
dated 04 August 2019).
In light of the above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
Notice No 125 -Overdue Responses to the Contractor's Material Submittals - Architectural,
Structural, Civil, and MEP- as at 29 August 2019
The Engineer considers that the Contractor has failed to evidence that they have complied
with Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300 of the Specifications and to substantiate that the
document was submitted in a timely manner and in accordance with the Rev 11.2 Baseline
Programme.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice 115-Delays to Installation of Displays due to Other Contractor (Info Booths)
The Engineer notes that the installation of the displays and associated works are considered to
be final installation works and there are no critical work dependencies that would cause
critical delays to the Contractor's works. The installation of the displays and associated work in
the areas described in the Contractor's submitted E-Notice are to be installed towards the
very end and therefore are not considered to be disrupting the Contractor's ongoing activities.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost.
• Notice No 128 - Overdue Responses to 84 As-Built Drawings as at 1 August 2019- including
Electrical, Plumbing, Security Systems, Local Area Network, and Elevators & Escalators
[issued vide 16 As-Built Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contentions and advises that the Contractor is
required to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300
of the Specifications and to substantiate that the drawings were submitted in a timely manner

and in accordance with the Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme . The Engineer on numerous
ocassions has notified and recorded the Contractor's delays and failure to adhere to their own
target dates regarding the submission of the As-Built Drawings.
• Notice No 131 - Unreasonable WIR Code 3 Comments Rejecting the Mock-up for XD1
Lighting Fixtures requesting changes to the Ceiling Roses and Gl Boxes
The Contractor is referred to the Shop Drawing ref. 401-AN-E-02-00-5.26D-LT-SD-001- R03
that was attached with the benchmark WIR-ELEC-66175 for XD1 fixtures that clearly shows
WPBOX (Weather Proof Box) for the fixtures XD1 (refer to drawing attached to the Engineer's
repsonse to this notice where highlighted in green are the WPBOX).
The Contractor did not reflect the above WPBOX in the detailed drawing ref 401-AN-E-07-GE0.00-LT-SD-110. The comment provided in the said benchmark WIR-ELEC-66175 is based on
the Project Specification Sections 260500, Clause 1.5.A.3, Section 265600 Clause E.9.a and
ADDC's wiring regulations Clauses 7.1.14, 7.3.12, 7.8.17 and 9.8.1.
The ceiling rose which was approved through MS/0401/E/0123 was submitted for general use
within the whole MTB and this approval does not specifically allow the Contractor to use it for
external installations as it is not complying with t he weather requirement s. Accordingly, the
Contract or shall use the approved materials in full compliance wit h the related authorities and
regulations as commented in the MS/0401/E/0123.
In October 2016, and in response to t he Engineer's comments given for MS/0401/E/03 17-00 Lighting Fixtures FOH Type XD1, the Contractor noted the Engineer's comment " We ke no
exception to the IP20 rated driver provided it is enclosed/ protected by an IP rated enclosure/
protection which is suitable for the operating environment." The Contractor is therefore
aware of the weather proof requirements for such installations which are expected to be
followed in all other related installations/connections as per the above referred
specifications/codes/ drawing. Photos for the installed IP66 driver of XDl was provided in the
Engineer's response to Notice. The Contractor is also referred to its obligations under Clauses
1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8.
In light of the above, the Contractor's E-Notice is considered to be unfounded and has no
merit and we do not consider the Contractor to have an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
D. Conclusion
In light of the above, and for the reasons explained in the previous sections, the Engineer and
pursuant to Clause 27.1.6 of the Conditions of Contract dissaproves the submitted claim (1)
and considers that the Contractor has failed to demonstrate or substantiate an entitlement for
an extension to the Time for Completion.
Yours faithfully,
