Dear Sir,
We write to you to express our deep concerns on the lack of progress in completing the infrastructure
works that include the sewer system, storm water system and duct banks.
To clarify further, the sewer system at Pier-2 has not been completed to date. In particular we would
note that outstanding manholes have not been delivered, those that have been delivered are not
connected to their respective upstream/downstream pipelines. Furthermore there have been no
backdrops constructed and no waterproofing membrane has been applied to these areas either. (Photos
are enclosed).
This lack of progress has resulted in trenches being open for a long t ime, causing disruption to the
successive works of other trades related to MTB Building. A similar case exists for Piers 3 and 4.
In addition to the above, the storm water system has not been completed at any of the Piers. Piers 2 and
3 have short installed sections, but without full connectivity to the associated manholes these will
continue to further slow other interfacing future MTB works.
Also the progress of the IT and Power duct banks has been hampered by the lack of progress on the
construction of the associated pull pits. To date, many power duct banks pu ll pits remain uncompleted
due to unavailability of required accessories, which has been cited by your team as procurem ent issues.
This de lay has an impact on stringing required power and IT cables through these ducts and has been
ra ised as a concern by your own MEP team.
It is also worth to mention that to date no infrastructure works have commenced on Pier-1. Concluding
the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the construction of
the external works and coordinate with other MTB contractors to avoid further progress disruption
issues and illustrate a clear path for the completion of the infrastructure works inclusive of the asphalt

for the GSE road. The programme should include installation of piping/ ducting systems along with their
associated manholes/pull pits.

Dear Sir,
We wish to record our concerns at PCEJV's ongoing delays in providing approved material to achieve
timely completion of the mechanical works, with specific concern to the secondary steel pipe
supports work for main chilled water piping installations in Level 0.1 of Piers.
Despite of several reminders and our letter MTB/TCA/PCEJV /L/000279 dated 25 March 2014, PCEJV
has failed to expedite the approval, delivery and installation of grout material normally grouting of
baseplate should be done. "Prior to loading steel support" as mentioned by lntercool in the attached
e-mail correspondence dated 9 July 2014. Therefore, PCEJV is again requested to confirm target date
of completion of each activity so that TCAJV can monitor progress.
You are hereby instructed to proceed with all the necessary action immediately to mitigate further
delay. Failing such, we shall have no alternative but to back charge any delay and disruption cost
related to your contract work and other trades affected according to Subcontract Clause 1&.6.1. We
are keeping the contemporary records and we shall write to you again when this information is
available.
We look forward for your urgent response and action.
Yours faithfully,
