Subject:

Extension to the Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claims

Dear Sir,
We hereby write with reference to Chadwick Technology L.L.C. letters referred to above, and in
particular, to letter reference ADIA-NG-0390 dated 21 February 2018 entitled “Extension to the
Subcontract Time for Completion & Prolongation Cost Claim – Submission no. 4” wherein Chadwick

claim for an Extension of Time (EoT) of 1,230 days to the Works along with financial compensation in
amount of AED 149,253,815 for interim prolongation costs associated with alleged delay events up to
28th September 2017.
In Chadwick’s narrative, Chadwick contends that it was prevented from starting the roofing works at the
north‐west section of the Main Roof (gridline RP5 to RP0) in line with the original plan of the approved
Subcontract Programme. Chadwick also contends that it was the Contractor’s failure to provide access
to the steel structures in accordance with Appendix 5.A of Schedule 10 and the approved Subcontract
Programme, and failure to complete the necessary steel purlin modifications to kitchen exhaust towers,
specifically at gridlines RP5‐RP4, and the Contractor’s subsequent instruction to withhold decking works
at gridline RP2‐RP0, all at the Main Roof. This, Chadwick claims, resulted in 1,230 days critical delay as of
the cut‐off date of 28th September 2017.
Chadwick follows by stating in the Executive Summary of its claim that it incurred critical delay and
disruption to its Subcontract Time for Completion and its Subcontract Programme as a result of these
delay events and is therefore entitled to an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion,
additional Costs, Loss and Expense and the right to Adjustment to the Subcontract Price. The claim
submission relies on these delay events affecting the Central Processor (CP) Area, with the main driver
of delay being the delayed access to the CP’s Main Roof.
Moreover, Chadwick asserts and considers in its claim submission that the delayed access to the Central
Processor (CP) Area is a Contractor Culpable Event. Chadwick further contends it was the Contractor
who failed in its’ obligation to provide access to the Subcontractor in accordance with Schedule 10 and
the approved Baseline Rev. 1 Subcontract Programme and Clause 10.1.
TCA-JV hereby notes that Chadwick’s previous Extension of Time (ADIA-NG-0355 dated (3rd September
2017) was for 1,040 days with interim prolongation costs claimed AED 126,903,815.00 for delay events
up to 29th June 2017 and anticipated the Completion Date with the requested extension of time as 11th
August 2018.
It is TCA-JV’s view that Chadwick Technology has failed in its various claim submissions to prove its
compliance with the Subcontract's contractual requirements as listed below. Should Chadwick believe
that this is not the case then TCA-JV welcome a response from Chadwick setting out the facts and
demonstrating that Chadwick has complied with its necessary obligations under the Subcontract.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and on a without prejudice basis, TCA-JV herewith comment below on
the substantive issues in relation to the claims submitted;
EoT Claim Comments;
We hereby note the following comments on your claim for extension of time that renders it incomplete,
non-compliant and currently unacceptable, and request that Chadwick to revise its’ submission in light
of the said comments:
Chadwick’s Programme used in the Delay Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on a programme other than the approved baseline programme, and
other than the programme which was amended by Chadwick and based on their request and later on

agreed by TCA-JV to correct the scheduling anomalies that were present on Chadwick’s baseline
programme as per Appendices.
The subcontract allows for Schedule changes provided that a compelling reason for such change is
present and justifiable (such as an incorrect links, or other major flaws), and conditions the approval of
such changes by the second party in order to accept the use of such changed programme. Instead,
Chadwick’s approach in its current delay analysis is to keep introducing changes to the programme logic,
durations and dates across each claim window in a compounded manner, which is not an acceptable
practice, neither industry wise or contractually.
Developing a claim on a programme that is constantly changing logic at each time window without any
support as to why a logic change was introduced in a claim-window (which is what Chadwick has
conducted), and without prior consent from TCA-JV, renders Chadwick’s delay analysis to be noncredible. It lacks a common base with its’ previous analysis windows and subsequently renders the
outcome to be invalid.
We also note Chadwick’s failure to follow TCA-JV’s revised programme under the HoA Agreement
(Revision 6 Programme) when Chadwick was instructed to do so (please refer to JV’s letter 17th March
2015 reference MTB/TCA/CHADWICK/L/000205) and Chadwick’s failure to provide a revised programme
of its own that copes with an updated project delivery strategy which was instructed by the Employer
and fully communicated across the entire project, and which was followed by all parties concerned.
This particular case shall be viewed in line with the contractual sub-clauses 16.3.5 and 16.5.9.
Periods and Method used to conduct Chadwick’s Time Impact Analysis:
The delay analysis was conducted on time windows of ‘three months’ which is larger than the
contractually stipulated ‘monthly’ intervals for interim claims, which, in addition for not being
contractually compliant, does not serve as a good representation to the overall performance of the
project as a whole during the claimed window(s).
It is also noted that the “FRAGNETS” used to describe the delay event is assuming the effects stretching
into unsubstantiated and assumed ‘future dates’ and thus creating an overly prospective impact that is
not being supported or proven to be of the factual case.
Despite Chadwick’s submission dates of these interim claims well beyond and after the delay fragnets, in
addition to the above, TCA-JV notes that the data records in Chadwick’s claim windows are not aligned
with the data records that Chadwick has reported / communicated in its weekly or monthly reports
under the same periods.
We also note other anomalies with Chadwick’s claim programme data and the progress trackers
Chadwick is reporting to the project team. In this regard, Chadwick is instructed to correct the duration
of its claim windows to fit the contractual stipulated time, and to employ the correct ‘Time Impact
Analysis’ approach, while maintaining to use the correct data records in its analysis programs as to avoid
to over-delay or stretch delay events.
Events used in Chadwick’s Claim:

Chadwick’s submitted extension of time, claims compensation for the entire project, whilst its analysis is
based on a fractional analysis that is restricted to a limited event namely ‘access delays’ in the ‘Central
Processor Roof Cladding’ areas only, whilst overlooking other events in the same area, and other events
that occurred in other project areas such as the Piers, Gatehouses, Wrappers, Infills and Skylights. In this
regard, such an abstract partial event claim made into a time window is deemed partial, incomplete and
unacceptable.
TCA-JV’s records indicate that other events in the Central Processor area, either Employer related, or
Subcontractor culpable related, were overlooked while certainly having an effect on the overall progress
and completion of the works. These events need to be incorporated into Chadwick’s analysis in order to
comprehensively allow TCA-JV to assess Chadwick’s entitlement for time and cost compensation.
Moreover, we also note that whilst the Central Processor areas were part of the initial Critical Path of
Chadwick’s approved baseline programme, other delays in other areas that happen to form a larger
percentage of the project workload rendered these areas to be critical as well, and by Chadwick
overlooking these events, their respective effects from its analysis is unacceptable as it deems the
outcome of Chadwick’s analysis to be limited, restricted, partial and incomplete.
Accordingly, Chadwick’s delay analysis needs to be revised and resubmitted as to include all known
events that affected all of the project areas of Chadwick’s scope of works, and caused by all parties, be it
Chadwick delays, Employer delays (Bulletins and Briefing Packs), Main Contractor delays, and/or other
Subcontractor delays. This is required in order to establish the net time and cost entitlement in a fair
and reasonable way to allow the parties to concentrate its efforts to draw to a net entitlement and fair
determination.
Chadwick’s Mitigation and Concurrency:
Chadwick’s extension of time requests and the associated delay analysis did not include any
consideration towards establishing mitigation measures, and it has failed to demonstrate concurrent
delays caused by Chadwick, despite both requirements being part of Chadwick’s contractual
requirement (refer you subcontract clauses and Particularly the Specification of “Program Project
Control Requirements”.)

Chadwick’s Mapping Notices against Delay Events:
Chadwick should accompany its’ time impact analysis submission with a detailed schedule of the delay
notifications that it has issued along with an allocation of the notification toward the event presented in
its’ EoT Submission. In addition, Chadwick needs to attach physical copies of the notifications
themselves to the submission.
Establishing Entitlement - The Relationship between Extension of Time and Prolongation Costs:
It is noted that entitlement to an extension of time does not automatically entitle the Subcontractor to
prolongation costs incurred due to the additional time required to complete the Works. The Subcontract

does not provide a direct link between an entitlement to an extension of time and the entitlement to
compensation for the additional time spent in completing the Works.
Despite this, Chadwick asserts an entitlement to additional payment for its prolongation and disruption
costs, pursuant to Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion] and 27.1
[Subcontractor's Claims]. These clauses do not, in fact, create any basis or grounds for additional
payment for prolongation and disruption costs as alleged. Clause 27.1 is a procedural clause concerning
the notification and submission of claims, and as such, Chadwick has so far, failed to establish any bona
fide basis or grounds for its claim. Accordingly, Chadwick must establish an entitlement to claim
additional payment for prolongation and disruption costs (or any other additional payment) by specific
reference to the Subcontract giving rise to an entitlement to an additional payment.
Upon review of Chadwick’s prolongation costs (ADIA-NG-0363 Dated 30.Sep.17) the costs submitted
should be actually incurred and calculated during the periods when the delaying events impacted the
progress of the Works, and under the various different locations of your works on site, not over the
extended duration at the end of the subcontract period. Accordingly, Chadwick’s entitlement to
additional or increased costs must be clearly linked to the actual delay event, in specifically affected
areas of the works on-site, and to the period where the actual delay was experienced.
Chadwick is thereby required to separate its resources and associated costs under prolongation to be
apportioned into the following sections of its scope of works, this to further compliment the individual
areas of its works which were, or may have been effected by different delaying events (not just relative
to Central Processor).
a.
b.
c.
d.

Central Processor
Piers & Gatehouses
Wrappers & Infill
Skylights

Upon review of Chadwick’s Staff Costs, Chadwick is further required to separate its staff resources and
associated costs under prolongation to be apportioned under the following criteria headings;
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Indirect Staff
Direct Staff
Core Staff
Location Staff
Task Staff

(considered as prolongation)
(not considered as prolongation, i.e. – production related staff)
(general staff related to all the works & activities – full scope)
(specific to separate locations or sections of scope on site ‘a to d’)
(specific to individual tasks in separate locations on site)

In relation to the following heads of claim (1 & 2 below) which were submitted by Chadwick as separate
claimed amounts, these costs have not been substantiated in any format or quantitative manner.
Therefore, the JV cannot adequately assess these costs for there is currently nothing available to review
or assess. These costs are global and have no substantiated information provided to them to
demonstrate how they were calculated or justified as actual costs/claims incurred with relative
substantiation. Chadwick is to provide further substantiation in relation to these heads of claim if any
real assessment is to be carried out.
1.
2.

Disruption Costs
Escalation Costs

Chadwick’s claim fails to apply and link any purported costs to the periods where excusable and
compensable delays were actually experienced, instead referring to the total overrun period beyond the
Time for Completion (extended completion dates).
Once Chadwick establishes adequate entitlement to prolongation costs by virtue of an excusable and
compensable delay event, it is required to demonstrate that it actually suffered loss and/or expense
under such an event at the time the event occurred and under the specific location or section of works
on site.
For the avoidance of doubt, the above is not, of itself to be considered as an admission of any
entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or payment of additional Costs, nor does it
constitute a waiver of any of the terms of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
