Subject: Preparation for ADAC Network- Security (Penetration) Testing
Dear Sir,
Please note that the ADAC Infrastructure subcontractor will be performing a Network (LAN and

WLAN) Security (Penetration) Testing shortly (see attached schedule).
This test will be an intrusive test and is a simulated "attack" on the network to probe for weaknesses
and vulnerabilities that may exist in Operating Systems, Services, Applications, Databases and
Network including potential for any attacker to gain access either via internal or external network.
We would like to inform you that before the start of this test, all updates to your systems including
major, minor upgrades and patches should be applied to your Operating Systems, Services,
Application, Firmware and Databases should be completed. The upgrades are scheduled to start by
beginning of November 2018. This will allow the Infrastructure team to lock-down their Firewalls.
Once the test has finished, strict version control will be applied and updates will be allowed only
after due consideration on individual merit by the Change Control Board. Along with the upgrades,
we will also need an upgrade road map for any future updates in order to plan ahead.
Once the test has been run, the subcontractor will present a report detailing any vulnerabilities that
were identified. There will be a period of time that will be given to each system to fix these
vulnerabilities following which the identified vulnerabilities and their fixes will be checked.
Following the fix, Performance testing will be scheduled. Details of this test will be shared in another
communication.
Based on the above information, you are requested to provide a list detailing versions of all
Operating System, Services, Application, Firmware and Databases being used in this project.
The above is for your information and action. Please respond within 7 days of receipt of this letter
providing requested details.
Subject: High Performance Coating HPC-01 (Variation Order 01)
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1) above, which is the
issuance of Variation Order 01 for the HPC 01 works, this is to inform you to proceed with the works for
the paint as agreed 50 / 50 for the mix ratio of HPC-01 and open joints as per the said VO 01.
In addition to the above, please be informed that the works and final product are subject to the
Engineer’s approval. Please also note that the Engineer has explicitly stated that based on this relaxation
no cracks will be accepted.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
