Subject:DELAY OF PAYMENT
Subcontract Agreement Nos. JM-C-645-SC-008, JM-C-646-SC-015, JM-C-706-SC-009 and
009

JM-C-722-SC-

Dear Mr. Calfat,
We write with reference to the delayed release of recent Payments and Payment Certificates and more
significantly, the current overdue payments from you for Works that were undertaken in …………… (add
month???) 2020.
The information recorded in Table 1 below sets out when our last three Payment Applications were
submitted to you (the Contractor), when the corresponding Payment Certificates were to have been
issued by you when they were actually issued, and when the corresponding Payment were or are to be
made by you. This also shows the net amount that is currently due and payable by you.
Table 1 – Status of Overdue Payment Certificates / Overdue Payment
S/N
Interim Payment Application Payment Certificate
Payment Amount Due
1
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
2
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
3
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
Add dates and amounts
Please be informed that as of today, our records show that the outstanding balance payable to us is QAR
1,629,888.79 as shown in Table 1 above and as per the attached Statement of Accounts which was
earlier sent to Mr. Gulfan Hussain via email on 25th August 2020. Out of the outstanding balance,
56.71% of the progress billings statements submitted is overdue amounting to QAR 924,387.81 (Qatari
Riyal: Nine hundred twenty-four thousand three hundred eighty-seven and 81/100), which is beyond the
45 days terms of payment in reference to Clause …..??? of the conditions of the Subcontract
Agreements signed between both parties.
As per our records, the previous payments to us were made in installments or partial settlements of our
claims for overdue amounts. Please note that, this method of payment is not in compliance with the
terms of payment as stipulated in the signed Subcontract Agreement No. JM-C-645-SC-008 dated 16th
May 2018, JM-C-646-SC-015 dated 18th April 2019, JM-C-706-SC-009 dated 7th April 2019 and JM-C722-SC-009 dated 28th September 2019, Clause …. ????? respectively.
Accordingly, we remind you that pursuant to Clause …… ??? of the Subcontract Agreements, the
Contractor ‘Within ……add number of days???……….. (??) Days of the Engineer receiving a Statement
and supporting documentation from the Subcontract, the Contractor shall:
“………….. add the clause wording here…………..”
This delay of payments has seriously impacted and is continuing to impact our capability to settle our
financial obligations not only to our suppliers/creditors but most importantly, the wages of our workers
on site which resulted into two (2) notices of temporary blacklisting as attached hereof from labor
department dated on 16th March 2020 and 19th April 2020, respectively.
We hold you responsible for these two (2) blockage issues with the Labor Department as stated above
due to the non-payment of our overdue claims, which has caused delays in the settlement of our
worker’s wages thru WPS system. As per the WPS regulations, we need to pay our workers on or before
the 7th of each month to avoid getting a ‘blacklist’ notice.
Furthermore, our company’s image has been damaged because of this action and/or inaction on your
part and the unacceptable delays of our payments. As a consequence of this, we have also encountered
delays in the processing of our visa applications for new workers, resident permit renewals and on time
mobilization of workers from abroad.
In view of the foregoing, we kindly request you to treat this request for payment in an urgent basis and
we look forward to receiving a response within 7 days of receipt of this letter. In the event no action is
taken on your part to release the payments, then there will be a risk of manpower pulling-out of the
works or work stoppage will be initiated and possibly a legal remedy may be considered in order to
pursue full payment of our financial claims.

This is for your information and urgent action on the above subject.
Yours faithfully,
