Subject: Approval of Fire Life Safety Design and House of Expertise Responsibilities
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters reference (11) and (12) above, and the copy of ADAC letter reference (10)
enclosed as part of your letter (12).
Sequence of Submittal Approvals
In respect of your query regarding the sequence of Submittal reviews and approval, kindly review and
return our submittals in the order in which the Submittals are submitted for approval. · We will alert
you in the event we require a different prioritization of the Submittals.
Clause 12.1.6 (k)
In respect of your comments regarding Clause 12.1.6 (k), be advised that failing to obtain an
Employer's Permit is a design error beyond the scope a Design Error capable of being identified by
Experience Contractor practices. All changes required to rectify such design errors are beyond the
capabilities of an Experienced Contractor. You are well aware that such capabilities are within the
reach of highly specialized fire and life safety consultancies. Please refer again to our self-explanatory
letter reference (8) above.
We note that in respect of giving notices, the matter of compliance with Applicable Law was raised
during tendering whereby ADAC confirmed to the bidders via Tender Bulletin 18, RFC-3319 to "Price in
accordance with the Employer's design. Any changes due to design code requirements will be
coordinated and discussed with the successful Tenderer." This should put to rest any doubts regarding
the reservation of our rights considering the absurd
allegations that 3 rd party HOE is a Contractor responsibility considering that the ADCD Permit for the
Works has yet to be approved and your unjustified comments regarding our obligations to scrutinize
numerous and unjustified reissuances of Fire Strategy Reports. The Tender Bulletins are expressly
incorporated into the Contract to clarify and resolve discrepancies
in the scope of the MTB Works. This was agreed between the TCA JV and ADAC to set limits to on the
physical scope Works and to establish accountability for further changes thereto.
You are well aware that the strategy report is the basis of the Employer's design and it has no use to
us until it is developed into designs and constructible IFC documents capable of being implemented
for the execution of the Works (i.e. steps 1 to 3 in the ADCD six-step process).
We note you have not yet confirmed if the strategy report revisions 11 will be the last. Such
confirmation would be a true indicator of ADCD's approval of the design and would signal our ability
to proceed with the IFC documents without risk of unjustified retributions and allegations of failure to
comply with Applicable Laws.
Responsibility for HOE
We disagree with your conclusion regarding the responsibility for engaging the third party HOE
Consultant as specified in the ADAC/ADCD agreed six-step process. Your statement referring to (10)
as confirming agreement by us to such process and MOU is not true.
The aforementioned ADAC letter confirms ADAC's compliance with ADAC's own agreement towards
ADCD and acknowledges ADAC's responsibility for doing so. It confirms and vindicates our numerous
objections that we are not party to the six-step process agreement and numerous notices that the
processes described in the ADAC/ADCD agreement relate to ADAC responsibility approval processes.
ADAC is solely responsible for fulfilling the agreements is makes with any Governmental Authority,
including in this instance ADCD.
Therefore, ADAC's appointment of AON as a 3 rd Party HOE Consultant to comply with the terms of its
own agreement with ADCD in order to satisfy its own obligations for ADCD Permit for the Works in

compliance with fire and life safety codes is ADAC's sole responsibility including the consequences
arising there from. Please be advised that we are appointing our own independent consultant to ensure
that the Works
conforms to ADCD authorized documents and approvals.
We refuse any responsibility or accountability for the Third Party retained by ADAC and will respond to
ADAC's claim for the 3rd party HOE costs in due course.
Yours faithfully,
