Subject:Delay Notice - Late Delivery and Missing Materials
Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,
We refer to the above subject and put on record your persistent failure in the completion of the works
in a timely manner, which has been notified to you numerous times. We also put on record once again
your lack of resources i.e. manpower and materials which are affecting the works and delaying other
activities and have to be resolved immediately.
In light of the above, be informed that the following works need your urgent attention:
Works/Areas
1.
Submit a Delivery Schedule for the balance of remaining materials to be delivered to the site;
2.
We put on record that 48 frames and 54 doors are missing; Please take necessary action;
3.
Deliver the doors for gatehouse entrances immediately;
4.
Hardware is still not delivered for LB2 doors that were due to be installed and completed more
than a year ago; Please take necessary action;
5.
Several hundreds of WIR’s are Code 3 with no corrective action being taken. You are urgently
required to provide an action plan;
6.
NCRs for rust on hardware have not been resolved. Provide date of clearance;
7.
Provide Schedule of installation.

In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to take immediate action at no additional cost to us, in
order to complete the aforementioned area(s) and submit your planned completion date with
mitigation measures to recover the delays caused by you due to incomplete works.
In addition, you are urgently required to:
•
Provide factory order acknowledgments for all missing materials immediately;
•
Provide adequate manpower to clear all WIR’s;
•
In case you fail to clear the NCRs within four days of receipt of this letter, all hardware and doors
affected by NCRs will be quarantined and all doors and hardware will need to be replaced by you, at no
additional cost, with new doors and hardware.
Be informed that if you fail to comply with our instructions above we will proceed with procuring the
missing materials and supply skilled manpower to perform the works on your behalf and you will be
backcharged all costs accordingly.
Furthermore, Pier 4, Pier 3, and CP are undergoing Testing and Commissioning starting on 15th July
2018 for P4. Please note that you will be held culpable for any delays due to incomplete or poor door &
hardware installation.
To conclude, any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other
Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be
solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This notice has been issued pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement due to your default,
negligence, and/or lack of diligence while performing your obligations.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
