Subject:
Re: Subcontract Works for Shuttering, Erection, Steel Fixing and Concrete Unacceptable
Delays
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter ref: (1) wherein you have expressed your concerns regarding delays
occurred to the works related to our scope of works and we wish to inform you of the following.
We note your understanding as stated in letter ref: (1), for the commencement of the works on 12 July
2020, and we note that the commencement of works was in fact delayed. We put on record that the
original commencement date as per the Programme of Works was 28 June 2020. However, we received
your confirmation on or around 11 July 2020 to commence with the works, and once the confirmation
was received, we mobilized our team immediately and commenced on 12 July 2020, without any further
delays.
It is worth noting that we have been increasing the manpower onsite since staring the date as shown in
Figure 1 below, and we will continue to increase it accordingly in the next upcoming days and weeks.
Figure 1
In regards to your concerns about the lack of workers, personnel and supervision, we kindly inform you
that the manpower (workers and supervision staff) will continue to increase as stated above, as a matter
of urgency, to ensure that it reaches the required levels. Please be informed that we are currently
recruiting foremen, skilled workers, and engineers who will be allocated to the project in due time.
Regretfully, we note that the Covid-19 pandemic has significantly affected the process of recruiting staff,
as well as, has affected the process of assigning and allocating manpower to the project. Adding to these
challenges, is the requirement imposed on the project to obtain a negative Covid-19 test prior to the
engagement of any personnel to the project, which disrupts, restricts and puts significant difficulties on
us. We assure you that we are determined and currently working on resolving and overcoming these
difficulties.
In addition, we put on record that many of our activities such as steel fixing and scaffolding works, are
actually ahead of the Schedule/Programme of Works. In regards to the shuttering works, as mentioned
above, we are taking immediate measures to increase the manpower on site, particularly increasing the
skilled carpenters and carpenter foremen, to mitigate any delays which might have occurred.
Moreover, it is also worth noting that the works have commenced during extreme weather conditions
which have affected the progress. Table 1 below, shows the number of hours lost during July and August
2020 due to black flags. As shown in Table 1 below, 62.4 hours have been lost from 12 July 2020 to 15
August 2020, due to black flags. However, the actual hours lost in the project are in fact significantly
more, when taking into consideration the fact that the lost hours have not been continuous but have
occurred in different times during the day as well as different days during the weeks, which have
disrupted and continue to disrupt the works.
Table 1
We also put on record that some delays have occurred due to lack of equipment consequent upon the
non-provision of a Tower Crane for the works during three (3) days in July and August 2020. Specifically,
on 29 July 2020 and 1-2 August 2020, our reinforcement and shutter activities did not progress as per
the schedule, due to the non-provision of Tower Crane, which was used by you for other activities onsite.
Moreover, please be informed that we are currently working on the preparation of a recovery plan,
which will be submitted to you in due time.

We wish assure you that we are currently taking all actions to mitigate all delays by increasing the
manpower as discussed above, and by consistently pursuing to improve the quality, sufficiency of the
management, and supervision.
We conclude, by reiterating that we remain fully committed to the Project and to completing our
obligations within the agreed dates without compromising time, safety and quality.
Yours faithfully,
