Subject: WIR's- Code 3
Dear Sir,
Further to the above referenced subject whereas WIR's are receiving unnecessary and invalid comments
which renders a Code 3 status.
We hereby express our serious concern,~ regarding this issue which is jeopardizing our progress,
engineering activities and document control processes by revisiting work fronts and performing
unnecessary administration activities which results in utilizing resources which could have been used
more
successfully elsewhere and thus ultimately impacting on our Time for Completion.
You have and we acknowledge the authority to approve or reject our WIR's on behalf of the Employer,
but
such discretion is limited and circumscribed by the Contract. Your supervisory role is to ensure that we
execute the works aligned with the original design intent, specifications and IFC drawings.
As long as the works executed on site comply with the design intent and specifications as set out in the

contract there is no justification for a Code 03 status. Outright rejections should be a last resort and if
issued, you have a duty to justify the rejection against a specific provision in the Contract, in an IFC
drawing or in a Specification. This will ensure that any rejection is legitimate and facilitate appropriate
corrective action by us or the need for an Engineer's Instruction.
The majority of WIR's raised to date have received Code 03 status with irrelevant and invalid comments.
We are contractually obliged to consider and respond to each of the Engineer's comments and to
resubmit the applicable submission for further verification. Therefore, a large amount of unnecessary
comments will significantly disrupt our progress on other work fronts.
Therefor for the mutual benefit of the Project, we request you to refrain from generating excessive and
inappropriate comments that do not have specific implications to the Project.
It is essential that the works be approved subject to the Contractor responding in parall.el to your
comments or other requirements, while being allowed to move on with dependent work streams, hence
the status Code 02.
We look forward to our mutual concern regarding this issue and the reduction of Code 03 statuses,
future
cooperation and successful completion of the Project for the benefit of all parties concerned.
Yours faithfully
