Subject: Post Heads of Agreement Concurrency Review up to 1 January 2017
Dear Sir,
Further to recent discussions between representatives of the Contractor and the Employer I Engineer,
the
Contractor herewith provides proposed timetables for the preparation of a detailed concurrency review
for the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017. These are attached hereto.
In order to undertake the concurrency review exercise in parallel with the preparation of the revised TIA
submissions (also requested by the Employer I Engineer), the Contractor proposes the adoption of a
'Windows' form of delay analysis to establish the existence of any concurrent Contractor (i.e. culpable)
delay in the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017.
The 'Windows' methodology will utilize 'Cleaned Up' versions for the Contractor's monthly updates a
predefined
time slice periods.
The 'Windows' methodology establishes the progressed status of the works at the start of the time slice
period and then the progressed s.tatus of the works at the conclusion of the time slice period.
Once the status of the works at the start and conclusion of the time slice period has been established
then
. the programmes can be investigated to identify those specific activities giving rise to critical delay to
the
various Project Milestone during the time slice period.
This process will establish which part'r' is responsible for the critical delay, and in so doing, will also
identify, what if any period of critical delay is deemed to be a Contractor concurrent culpable delay.
It should be noted that accuracy of such a Concurrency review is governed by the duration of the time
slice periods. The greater the time slice periods the less accurate the conclusions will be.
The Contractor has provided 3 time slice option for consideration, these being 1 month, 2 month and

3 month time slice periods.
Based upon the provided timetables, the concurrency review exercise will be complete as follows;
1 month Time Slice periods- 8 October 2017;
2 month Time Slice periods- 23 July 2017; and
3 month Time Slice periods- 25 June 2017;
The three options and associated timetables are provided for the Employers I Engineer's consideration
and the Contractor requests the Employer I Engineer to confirm which time slice period is to be adopted
so the exercise can commence.
Yours faithfully,
