Subject: Rejection of Subcontractor's As-Built Programme·- No11ti<Ce· orfi Del:a.y
Dear Sir,
Further to the numerous requests made to the Subcontractor for a schedule of forecast as-built
submissions,
the Contractor confirms that the Subcontractor submitted an as-built programme via email on• 30 April
2018.
The Contractor shares its concerns vis-a-vis this proposed programme and notes the following:
The submission dates proposed by the Subcontractor are neither cognisant of revision 10.4 of the
Programme nor of the milestones directed by the Contractor via· its letter reference (3). lio be clear, the
Subcontractor shall resubmit this as-built programme and shall take into c:onsideration each of the five
completion stages included in letter (3) when revising it.
The as-built programme submitted by the Subcontractor includes a number of drawings (both
mandatory
and elective) without a scheduled submission date. The Subcontrat:tor shall provide planned submission
dates for each and all as-built drawings. It is reiterated that these submission dates shall IDe cognisant
of
the completion stages advised via letter {3). ' '
In addition to the above, the Contractor notes that some as-built drawings (both mandato y and
elective)
have been marked by the Subcontractor as 'not required'. Please note that waiving the requirement for
the submission of an as-built drawing remains the right of the Employer only. Until such time as the
Employer advises the list of as-built drawings which are not required (if any), the Subcontractor shall
plan
for all of them and shall prepare its programme accordingly.
In view of the above, please be notified that, in the opinion of the Contractor, the performance of the
as-built
ji)reparation work is such that it may result in the Contractor not achieving its own obligations under the
Contract. Therefore, the Subcontractor is requested to take all reasonable steps to ensure completion of
these works in accordance with its contractual obligations under Sub-Clause 8.1.2 and Sub-Clause 16.1.1
of
the Conditions of Subcontract. The Subcontractor is therefore requested to revise and resubmit an asbuilt submission programme
forthwith, which shall be cognisant of revisions 10.4 of the Programme and the content of letter (3).
The Contractor's rights under the provisions of Sub-Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Sub-Clause
16.6
[Delay Damages] are hereby reserved.
Yours faithfully
