Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0188

Engineer’s Request to remove our installed/completed works associated to SS Cladding Camera poles
located at South Etihad area L0.0 Room 5.64 Sector 5.22 (Tenant Area) to facilitate the Employer's
Other Contractor (DEPA) works – Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays on the part of the Employer’s Personnel/Other Contractor and the requirement
for additional work that requires a valid EI and VO in order for us to proceed.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 18 November 2019 [12:38 PM], we received an email (enclosed in Annex B hereto), from you
informing us that two (2) of our already installed SS Cladding Camera poles located at South Etihad area
L0.0 Room 5.64 Sector 5.22 (Figure 1 refers), had to be temporarily removed, to enable the Employer’s
Other Contractor (M/s DEPA) to install floor tiles associated with the Tenant Works.
Figure 1
We note that your abovementioned email, requesting us to temporarily remove the SS Cladding Camera
poles located at South Etihad area L0.0 Room 5.64 Sector 5.22 (Tenant’s Area) to facilitate the
installation of floor tiles by DEPA and then reinstall the SS Cladding Camera poles back after the
completion of DEPA’s works, was sent to us a year after our Works have been completed.
For this reason, we reiterate once again that the two (2) SS Cladding Camera poles at South Etihad area
L0.0 Room 5.64 Sector 5.22 located within the Tenant’s area, have been installed and handed over to
your via the WIR process (WIR-FIN-53785 refers). Therefore, prior to the installation of the SS Cladding
Camera poles and since these works were located within the Tenant’s area, a permission to proceed
with the installation of the SS Cladding Camera poles within this area was required by you. It is for this
reason that on 29 October 2018 [8:32 AM] we sent you an email (enclosed in Annex C hereto),
requesting you whether we could proceed with the installation of the SS Cladding Camera poles, or not,
since the Stone Floor installation was yet to proceed by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA). This
was then followed on Tuesday 30 October 2018 by receipt of an e-mail from you at [2:55 PM]
(reproduced in Figure 2 below and enclosed in Annex C hereto) informing us that you “…don’t have any
objection [for us] to proceed with the camera pole installation…”.
Figure 2

For the reasons explained above, given that our Works for the installation of the SS Cladding Camera
poles located at South Etihad area L0.0 Room 5.64 Sector 5.22 have been completed within the Tenant’s
Area, following your request to do so, which was received via the email replicated in Figure 2 above, we
put on record that the works required by us to provide support to facilitate DEPA’s works by removing
our installed SS Cladding Camera poles, will, at such a late stage of the Project, invariably result in
consequential delay and disruption to our Works.
Also, given that the ‘support’ to be provided to DEPA is additional to our scope, then we remind you that
SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required, and will
warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed.
However, it appears that you have overlooked or ignored this.
Very simply, the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause 2.31 of SAA8 [pertaining to Variations] states that
we are not to proceed with any Variation until a VO and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. It is
your obligation to issue this Time/Cost Record first if you wish to instigate change; but this is only after
the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand. Therefore, until
such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29, then we are
unable to proceed with undertaking the additional works noted above. We trust this is clear.
Resultant Impact:
The requirements to remove the SS Cladding Camera poles located at South Etihad area L0.0 Room 5.64
Sector 5.22 (Tenant’s Area) to facilitate the installation of floor tiles by DEPA and then reinstall the SS
Cladding Camera poles back after the completion of DEPA’s works, at such a late stage of the project will
as noted, cause significant delay and disruption to our works. This has the potential to invariably knock
on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this has the potential to prevent
us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
