Subject: Request for an Engineer's Instruction and Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC SubClause 20.1.4 (b) for Chilled Water System "Lay-up Chemical"
Dear Sir,
We enclose our Mechanical Subcontractor, PCEJV's letter reference: (1) above, whereby they have
proposed two viable options for insertion of lay-up chemical into the MTB chilled water network in
order
to mitigate the risk of contamination.
PCEJV highlighted the ongoing contamination issues in AHU coils due to the increased iron and
suspended
solids, resulted from the lower circulation velocity of chilled water in certain areas.
This will ultimately lead to the formation of pipe slag and corrosion /rust chips, which would loose and
break away from the pipe walls with time and/or once the circulation velocity is increased. Thereafter,
these chips would be carried along with the water and deposited on the inlet side and the internal
surfaces of the AHU coils, causing loss of flow rate, thereby decreasing the cooling efficiency.
Please be advised that, the available mass flow rate in the MTB chilled water network is seventy-two
percent (72%) of the system design volume. As such, the risk of contamination is increasing and will be
Site wide if not managed.
In light of the above, PCEJV has proposed following viable options to mitigate the above risk. The
technical
data for the lay-up chemical, which has been provided by PCEJV, is also enclosed herewith:
1. Insertion of lay-up chemical, whilst continuing circulation, to assist with lower circulation and protect
pipe I coils.
2. Insertion of lay-up chemical and shutting down of the network upon Flushing I Commissioning works.
Implementation of any of the above proposals is a Variation to our Scope of Works and as such, will
have
cost and time implications. In light of the above, we request that the Engineer will take one of the
following actions immediately:
1) Issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Specifications, etc. pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.1 (a)
along with a formal Variation Order pursuant Sub-Clause 20.1.2 of the Conditions of Contract, if
the Engineer requires one of the above proposals to be implemented; Or
2) Propose any other suitable resolution to this issue and advise us accordingly. We trust the Engineer
understands the criticality of the issue and will take necessary actions as a matter
of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
