Subject RE: Additional Cost for Revision of Model for Central Pavilion due to Glass Screen
Dear Sir,
Modulation to Follow GRC Panels
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor requests an additional
payment of AED 10,800.00 for allegedly revising its BIM model further to the issuance of Request for
Information Nos. 9149 (RFI-9149) and 13614 (RFI-13614).
Firstly, the Contractor confirms that the Design Consultant's response to RFI-9149 simply clarified that
the
glass modulation had to follow the GRC. It is further confirmed that in June 2015 (date on which this
response
was given) the Subcontractor had not yet produced the BIM model; hence, there could not have been
any
abortive I remodelling works vis-a-vis RFI-9149.
In relation to the content of RFI-13614, the Contractor notes that the Subcontractor raised this request
for
information to identify some discrepancies between the GRC and the glass modulation. Subsequently,
the
Design Consultant addressed the Subcontractor's query by either accepting the Subcontractor's
proposals or
deferring to the Drawings' order of precedence introduced via Bulletin No. 169.
Please be reminded that it is part of the design obligation of the Subcontractor to immediately notify the

Contractor in writing if it finds any inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in any of the Drawings
provided by the Contractor for the execution of the Subcontract Works. The Contractor shall then issue
any
clarification and/or instruction necessary to resolve such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy,
i.e. it
shall respond to the request for information. The Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor
that
the provisions of Sub-Clause 9.6.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract clearly state that 'the Subcontractor
shall
not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional
cost or
adjustment to the Subcontract Price as a consequence of such clarification or instruction'.
Further, the Contractor refers the Subcontractor to its transmittal (2) which enclosed the
Subcontractor's
Request for Variation Order No. 894 (RFV0-894). In RFV0-894 the Subcontractor confirmed to both the
Contractor and the Employer that the changes associated to Bulletin No. 169 had neither cost nor time
impact In view of the above, the Contractor is of the opinion that, unless demonstrated otherwise, the
Subcontractor
should not be compensated for the additional works claimed in its submission (1).
Yours faithfully,
