Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Instruction of reference 6) the Contractor has prepared the evaluation of
additional costs issue of said Instruction which was presented to the Engineer’s Assistant in the
settlement process. Full particulars are provided in attachment 3) to this letter and summarized in the
table below.

Description

Amount (QAR)

A.1

Structural Works

A.2

MEP Works

B

Abortive Road Works and Enhancement of Pedestrian Crossing 5,835,203.85

Total

(8,781,804.53)

(1,931,429.00)

(4,913,197.09)
Table 1 – Summary of Evaluation

The Engineer’s Instruction of reference 6) includes additional scope in the form of:

‘Lot 2.2, AI Sadd Station, enhancements of the pedestrian crossing at AI Quds signal, subject to MOTCLTPD review and approval, are to be provided’

The Contractor’s assessment enclosed in attachment 3) includes a section for the improvement of the
pedestrian crossing and the reinstatement of abortive traffic diversion works to the improved condition.

After extensive coordination with the Client, the Engineer’s Assistant and the Ministry of Transport and
Communication (MoTC), a report with proposed solutions for the improvement of the pedestrian
crossing was issued to the MoTC. This report is enclosed in attachment 1) to this letter.

The Contractor is in receipt of the MoTC’s letter dated 14 November 2016 (MoTC’s Letter ref. 2155)
enclosed in attachment 2) to this letter, which provides comments to the aforementioned report and
includes the request for further investigations concerning the improvement of the pedestrian crossing.

Since the Engineer instructed the Contractor to enhance the pedestrian crossing at al Quds Street,
subject to MOTC-LTPD review and approval, the additional investigations requested by the MoTC in
letter ref. 2155 should form part of the Contractor’s Scope.

Nevertheless, the Engineer’s Assistant has indicated in the settlement process that, if any, only costs for
the improvement of Al Quds Street itself will be accepted in its evaluation. This is in contradiction to the
ongoing coordination with the Client and the MoTC and furthermore to the MOTC’s letter ref. 2155, e.g.
Item 4, which states:

‘All proposed options were developed for the eastern approach only, but no options were proposed for
the southern approach. Please clarify. It is our opinion that options should be developed for both the
eastern and the southern approaches as the pedestrian crossing is not limited to the metro station but
also to cross the roads as agreed with Qatar Rail.’

As the Contractor has no contractual obligation to the MoTC, the Engineer is kindly requested to confirm
that all investigations requested by the MoTC via attachment 2) are aligned with the additional Scope of
Works issue of the Engineer’s Instruction reference 6).

Finally, the Engineer is kindly requested to review his evaluation of the improvement of the pedestrian
crossing, accordingly.

Until the Engineer has clarified the Contractor’s Scope, the Contractor cannot formally respond to the
MoTC’s requests. In order to avoid any unnecessary delay, the Contractor continues to review the
comments with his design consultant and coordinate with the MoTC.

Yours faithfully,
