Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0149
Late / Unreasonable Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 – Supplementary Signage
– Request for Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of E-Notice No. 0149 (ref: 2) in which you opine that as
we are “responsible for the design of all signage products and related elements, including interfaces and
coordination …” then we are somehow responsible for the matters detailed in our letter ref: (2).
For the reasons comprehensively set out in our letter ref: (2) we disagree; and it is clearly evident from
your reply (1), you have either elected to ignore the content or missed the crux of the issue entirely.
The need to raise E-Notice No. 0149 (ref: 2) was premised on the basis of the late and unreasonable
commented response to Material Submittal MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 (Statutory BOH Signage).
Firstly, despite you being contractually obligated to respond to this submittal within 21 calendar days, it
took you a further 22 calendar days to reply; in other words, a total of 43 calendar days to respond. At
this stage of the project, any delay in responding to any of our Submittals is unacceptable. Secondly,
one of the detailed comments annotated on the response to MS/0401/A/1752 Rev. 00 includes the
statement: “Contractor to provide extracted door schedule and drawing elevation where these [signage]
stickers will be located.” However, given that none of the IFC information provided to date shows us
where the signage stickers are to be located, it is not unreasonable for us to request further information
from you in relation to the same; especially considering your responses to our previous two RFIs
recorded in letter ref: (2) advised us that the “Related information will be issued in due course” and that
“the statutory signage locations shall be determined when [the] fit out is confirmed.”
We have still yet to receive this information. Hence the reason for issuing our E-Notice No. 0149 (ref: 2),
notifying you of delays and requesting the provision of the IFC Drawing, together with an EI / VO.
While accepting that under Specification Section 101400 ‘Signage’, we are ‘responsible for the design of
all signage products … to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements in accordance with the
Contract Documents,’ and in so doing are ‘responsible for … interfaces and coordination’, on the basis
that the Contract Documents do not specify where the signage is to be located, it is not for us to guess
or assume otherwise; and maintain that are under no obligation – as insisted upon by you – to “provide
[an] extracted door schedule and drawing elevation [indicating] where these stickers will be located.”
Therefore, in view of the matters raised in our letter ref: (2) (repeated above), it is nonsensical for you to
state in your letter ref: (1) that “the provided comments are within the Contractor’s scope.” If that is
the case [which is denied], then kindly direct us to the IFC Drawings or other Contract Documentation
issued to date that identifies the precise location where each statutory sign is to be positioned?
Meanwhile, based on the established fact that this information is not readily available, we reiterate our
request that you liaise with the Employer’s Design Consultant as necessary to provide us with properly
coordinated fully complete IFC Drawings as soon as possible showing the “statutory signage locations”
together with an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction and / or Variation Order. Until such time as this is
provided, we are prevented from installing the BOH Statutory Signage throughout the entire Terminal
Building and accordingly will not be held responsible for any of the ramifications arising therefrom.

Yours faithfully,
