Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant requested a quotation and
programme for the design and construction of a pedestrian Underpass between Joaan station and the Al
Sadd mall complex.

Further to this request, the Contractor's current estimate for the structural and civil construction costs
as detailed in Appendix 1 attached herewith is just short of + QAR 3,000,000.

Within the time frame provided, the MEP construction costs can only be roughly estimated as equal to +
QAR 1,000,000, and the Architectural Finishes construction costs can only be roughly estimated as equal
to + QAR 4,600,000. Both costs have been determined based on the Provisional Sums included in the
Volume 2 Part 2 [Commercial Proposal] of the Agreement.

The estimated structural, civil, MEP and architectural finishes construction cost is provided for budgeting
purposes only, and it does not include any other additional cost that may arise as a consequence of a
late Instruction, such as the cost of rework or abortive design, especially for the Joaan station concourse
level. These costs (if any) will be addressed under separate cover.

Based on the coordinates provided by the Engineer's Assistant under cover of letter reference 1), the
following non-exhaustive utility clashes were identified by the Contractor:
Foul sewer manhole needs to be relocated;
400mm storm gravity water pipe and manhole are clashing with the roof of the new underpass and
need to be relocated;
Oredoo chamber needs to be relocated;
Electrical substation needs to be relocated.

However, given the limited amount of time and informat ion available at this stage, cost estimates
associated with Utility Diversion Design and Works cannot be provided.

The quotations for Structural and Civil, MEP and Architectural Finishes design work will be provided
upon receipt from the Lead and MEP Designer (ATKINS) and from the Architectural Designer (Hyder).

The programme for the design and build of the new pedestrian subject underpass is also dependent
upon the availability of the information mentioned herein, therefore it will be provided as soon as the
relevant factors can be quantified.

In summary therefore:

•

The construction cost of the structural and civilworks is estimated at just short of OAR 3 million

•

The architectural and MEP fit-outs are estimated to be OAR 5.6 million.

•

Design estimates will be provided as soon as available

•
The utility diversions cannot be quantified without a design, but given the quantity and density
of the services currently in the area of the underpass, their relocation will have a substantial cost impact
on the construction of the underpass
•
A programme necessarily requires the preceding information to be realistic and can be provided
as soon as the designs are adequately advanced.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
