Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Direction of reference 1) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.2.1 of
Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith particulars in relation to the varied scope,
quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

The Contractor has assessed the impacts of this Variation and has concluded that the following items
will be severely affected both as to cost and time:

a.

Design

b.

Land acquisition

c.

Traffic diversion

d.

Utilities diversion

e.

ELS

f.

Construction and site installation

Considering the uncertainty of the information received via letter reference 1) with regards to the exact
location of the Al Sudan remote entrance and the resulting re-alignment of the relevant subway, the
Contractor has made an approximate cost estimate, which is summarized in Table 1 below.

Full particulars of the Contractor's valuation of this variation are enclosed in Attachment 1) and 2) to this
letter.

SN

DESCRIPTION

Amount (QAR)

A

CONSTRUCTION COST (Subway)

1

Cost reduction due to reduced subway length

2

Over-excavation and backfill

B

CONSTRUCTION COST (Entrance)

1

Additional ELS 1,330,000.00

2

Additional Construction Costs due to confined space

(600,000.00)

19,774.44

TBA

3
C

LEAD DESIGN

1

Abortive/Additional Design

1,391,829.28

TOTAL 2,141,603.72
Table 1: Summary of preliminary valuation

The Contractor hereby provides a preliminary estimate of the adjustment to the Contract Price in the
net amount of QAR 2,141,603.72 as detailed in Attachments 1) and 2).

The Contractor’s preliminary assessment of the time impact shows that the completion of Entrance 2
will be delayed by 3 to 4 months due to the need for piling at the new entrance location. This will extend
the duration of TTM accordingly.

The Contractor kindly requests the Engineer to clarify the final position of Entrance 2 and secure the
necessary land for the temporary site installation.

Finally the Contractor understands that the necessity to relocate entrance 2 is a fait accompli and kindly
requests the Engineer to formally issue an Instruction under 13.1.1. Any delay in doing so increases the
risk of additional works to be abortive and further delays to be incurred.

The Contractor reserves its rights to recover any time related costs in connection to this Variation which
shall be addressed under a separate cover.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.

Yours faithfully,
