
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0117
Additional Works associated with the Installation of Antennas to Piers 1 to 4 by an Other Contractor –
Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records a combination of delays on the part of the Employer’s Personnel/Other Contractor and
the requirement for additional work that requires a valid EI and VO in order for us to proceed.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 24 June 2019, we received an e-mail from a contractor to Etisalat, Comba-Telecom (ref: 1), informing
us of a requirement to provide the following ‘logistical support’ in order for them to install three (3)
antennas to the diffuser boxes to the main corridor areas to Level L2.0 to Pier 3 and Pier 4:
1.
Cutting to steel plates (50 x 50mm);
2.
Removal and subsequent replacement of mesh guards;
3.
Access hatches to the diffusers need to be unlocked and kept open; and
4.
Floor tiles adjacent to the diffuser panels need to be removed.
Attached to their e-mail were two sketches identifying the location of affected diffusers (two located in
Pier 3 and one in Pier 4), which according to Comba-Telecom represent the ‘RCP approved antenna
locations’, plus two photographs; one of which is replicated in Figure 1 below:

Figure 1
This was later followed on 21 July 2019 by receipt of an e-mail from you at 4:13pm (ref: 2), in which you
advise us of further ‘logistical support’ requirements and the need to provide Comba with ‘access and
ceiling openings’ to Piers 1 and 2 in the manner reproduced in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Area Level Priority order Actions required from JV
Logistics needed
Pier 1 L3.0
1
Diffuser box opening is required at one location 3 holes on steel plate
Pier 2 L2.0
2
GH 5, GH 12 & GH 14 : Lift lobby ceiling closure is pending
Ceiling tiles are
required at 3 locations
L2.0 & L3.0
2
GH 11: temporary ceiling cuttings are required at lobby area
4
Ceiling cuttings
L3.0
2
GH 18: Temporary ceiling cuttings are required in Lift lobby area 2
Ceiling
cuttings
L2.0 & L3.0
2
GH 19: lift lobby access required
Access card & work permission
We replied on 22 July 2019 [1:00pm] (ref: 2) and on the basis the ‘logistical support’ is additional to our
scope of Works, requested the provision of a formal instruction in order for us to proceed.
Following a further round of e-mails, you advised us on 23 July 2019 (ref: 2) that the additional work was
in our scope and referred us to Engineer’s Instruction (EI) No. 748; you further directed us to proceed
with the works and the costs incurred in doing so “will be covered under that instruction”.
For the reasons explained below, we disagree with your position.
EI No. 748 was issued on 15 July 2018 via letter ref: (3) instructing us “to provide assistance to allow the
Etisalat contractor to install additional antennas as per attached schedule”; namely the provision of:
access openings to ceilings; access panels; riser openings and provision of mobile scaffold access towers;
while the attached schedule indicates that such assistance was required to various levels to one (1)
gatehouse to Pier 2, fifteen (15) gatehouses to Pier 3, and seven (7) gatehouses to Pier 4.
The requirements reflected in the schedule attached to EI No. 748 are as follows:
1.
Total ceiling cuttings required :
118 Nos.
2.
Number of riser openings required
:
39 Nos.
We make the following comments:
Firstly, despite EI No. 748 being issued in July 2018, giving the impression that the Etisalat contractor
was due to commence its works within a reasonable time thereafter, it was not until almost one year
later, on 22 May 2019, that Comba-Telecom raised a request for access (ref: 4). This was limited to
requesting ceiling openings and riser shaft openings to Piers 3 and 4, and related to the following:
1.
Total ceiling cuttings required :
207 Nos.
2.
Number of riser openings required
:
46 Nos.
Not only was their access request issue late, but the number of ceiling cuttings and riser openings
actually required are grossly in excess of that was promulgated at the time EI No. 748 was issued.
Secondly, with the exception of the works required to Gatehouse 11 reflected in Table 1 above, the
further ‘logistical support’ requirements listed in your e-mail dated 21 July 2019 (ref: 2), are not part of
EI No. 748; despite your allegations that they are. Even if they were, which is denied, this does not
detract from the fact that it took almost one year after EI No. 748 was raised, for Comba-Telecom to
commence work. Hence, the additional time and cost impacts that have resulting therefrom cannot
possibly be construed as forming part of the included circumstances per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
Moreover, given that our Works has advanced significantly since EI No. 748 was issued, we also put on
record that the works to provide support to Comba-Telecom to Piers 1, 2, 3 and 4, will, at such a late
stage of the Project, invariably result in consequential delay and disruption to our Works. This is
notwithstanding the direct costs associated with the provision of access openings and mobile towers.

Also, given that the ‘logistical support’ to be provided to Comba-Telecom is additional to our scope, then
we remind you that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are
required, and will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us
to proceed. However, it appears that you have overlooked or ignored this.
Very simply, the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause 2.31 of SAA8 [pertaining to Variations] states that
we are not to proceed with any Variation until a VO and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. It is
your obligation to issue this Time/Cost Record first if you wish to instigate change; but this is only after
the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand. Therefore, until
such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29, then we are
unable to proceed with undertaking the additional works noted above. We trust this is clear.
Resultant Impact:
The requirements to provide access and ceiling openings and other associated works to various levels of
Piers 1 to 4 to facilitate the installation of additional antennas by Comba-Telecom at such a late stage of
the project will as noted, cause significant delay and disruption to our works. This has the potential to
invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this has the
potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required:
It is for this reason therefore that we issue this E-Notice requesting your prompt action, guidance,
decision or further instruction as may be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to
mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works. This includes without limitation:
1.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within ten (10) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Yours faithfully,
