
Subject :

Re: Re: Delay Notice – Pier 2 Level 2 Retail Hold-Room Completion

Dear Sir,
We write further to our referenced correspondence (2) above, in which we notified you of your ongoing
delays to the completion and release of L1C Hold-Room. You have refuted this in your correspondence
referenced (3) above and stated some incorrect events which have to be clarified herewith. It is clear
from the attached e-mails, reports and herewith photographic evidence that, the delays occurred are
due to your obvious lack of manpower and continuous ignorance of instructions which constitutes a
breach of the Subcontract Agreement.
Below is the history of events backed up with reports and email correspondence;
1.
Your Statement:
“….. M/s. TCA JV verbally informed M/s. Cloisall to remove the protection and rectify the alignment on
the 8th of January 2018, as recorded through the attached email, and then one week later prepared the
delay letter on the 14th of January 2018. M/s. Cloisall believes that one week period is insufficient
period to complete the protection removal and panel alignment since the entire work is done by man
lifts..” [sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. The below correspondences clearly show that you had been continuously
notified since 4th December 2017, which provides you with sufficient time to complete the works, if the
required resources had been allocated.
•
E-mail communication dated 4th December 2017 from our Site Engineer Omur Halici had
requested you to complete the works in L1C Hold-Room by 27th Dec 2017. (Attachment-1);
•
E-mail communication dated 4th December 2017 from Site Engineer Giovanni had requested
you to provide holes on the High Ceiling panels of L1C Hold-Room without any further delays.
(Attachment-2) ;
•
E-mail communication dated 27th December 2017 confirms that we were continuously
reminding you of the importance of L1C Hold-Room completion and requesting you to start and
complete in order to enable the follow on trades to commence with their works. However, no action
was taken by you. (Attachment-3);
•
Email Communications dated 11th December, 27th December 2017 and 27th January 2018
show that we instructed you to proceed with the scaffolding erection. (Attachment-4);
•
Email communication dated 18th December 2017 was sent to you indicating what was agreed
during the site walk, providing agreed notes and agreed dates ( Attachment-5);
•
E-mail communication dated 6th January 2018 also confirms that we had instructed you to
proceed and stated our concerns that L1C Retail Hold-Room is critical for the client and handover date
had already passed. Also in this email we stated that Cloisall had not even started panel alignments and
requested you to complete the high-level ceiling works, wall cladding alignment and remove the panels
protection. (Attachment-6).
2.
Your Statements:
“1. Protective cover removed and the alignment is completed”. [Sic –]

“4. Balance painting works completed”. [Sic]
“5. Balance painting works near the Gatehouse 16 will remain unfinished until M/s Cloisall receives
clearance to complete the Gatehouse entrance “. [Sic]
“6. Panel kinks and alignment is completed”. [Sic]
“7. Crakes on gypsum corner edges rectified”. [Sic]
Our Response:
As of 19th February 2018, you still have not completed the majority of alignments, paint touch up works
and cracks on the gypsum corners. The enclosed site photographs are a clear proof of your incorrect
statements as shown in Attachment 7. You are well aware of the fact that works without at least Code 2
Work Inspection Request (WIR) cannot be considered completed. Consequently, be informed that to
date, no WIR has been issued for the said works. Therefore, your statement that works have been
completed is not accepted and has no contractual basis.
For Gatehouse 16 entrance wall cladding, instruction had been given to you to proceed with the
secondary steel framing using TCAJV scaffolding on 11th Dec 2017 (Attachment-4). Moreover GH 16 wall
cladding entrance is not actually part of L1C Hold-Room. The majority of balance work is L1C wall
cladding and high level ceiling.
3.
Your Statements:
“Balance skirting cannot be completed because the unfinished stone flooring”. [Sic]
Our Response:
As you are well aware, the flooring is part of the Tenant’s scope and the type of flooring has not been
decided yet since the tenant is not on board. The skirting shall be measured to be fabricated after the
stone flooring is installed.
Conclusion:
At the time of writing this letter, we hereby record that the Hold-Room has not yet completed due to
lack of manpower as mentioned above.
In light of the above explanations, we reiterate that our position for the delays caused, remain
unchanged. As such, you are requested to refrain from generating unnecessary correspondence and
proceed on site without any further delay to complete the works.
Any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors
arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your
responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 and 16.6.1.
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
