Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0168
Delays due to ADDC Rejection of Electrical Design: Fuse Connection Units for Urinals and Autotaps
Dear Sirs,

Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays consequent upon ADDC’s rejection of the electrical
installations due to a fundamental disparity and variance between the IFC Design [which we have
constructed the Works in accordance with] and the applicable codes and regulations governing the
electrical design [for which the Employer’s Design Consultant, KPF, is responsible for].
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined in Annex A hereto will, if allowed to
continue, knock on and delay energisation of critical areas of the Project, and will impact on our ability
to hand over the affected areas. This will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
On 3 July 2019, the Abu Dhabi Distribution Company (ADDC) undertook an inspection on the Fuse
Connection Units (FCU) for the Auto Tap and Urinal Flush Controller [Case ID 7673541157], but was
rejected due to a purported failure of the electrical wiring installations to comply with the Electrical
Wiring Regulations on the basis the “Water-proof sockets and switches shall be used in damp areas”.
Further to which on or about 14 July 2019, we received Non-Conformance Report (NCR) No. MTC-CMA0401-CM-NCR-01315 (dated 9 July 2019) which in addition to advising us of the above, urged us to
provide a detailed survey of all project areas “to assure full compliance with ADDC regulations.”
For the reasons set out in other letters, including without limitation our letter dated 18 June 2019 (ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014460), we maintain that we have constructed the Works [and specifically the
electrical installations] in accordance with the IFC Drawings reflecting a design for which the Employer’s
Design Consultant [KPF] is unequivocally responsible for, not us. However, there appears to be a
fundamental variance between the IFC Design [which we have constructed the works in accordance
with] and the applicable codes and regulations governing the electrical design [for which the Employer’s
Design Consultant, is responsible for], and against which ADDC is inspecting; hence the reason for its
rejection of the electrical installations such as that identified above. The above issue is one of a number
of issues where it is evidently clear there is lack of coordination on your / the Employer’s / Employer’s
Design Consultant’s part to liaise with ADDC and resolve electrical design related issues associated with
the NOC previously issued by ADDC at the end of 2014 / early 2015.
We therefore take this opportunity in reminding you of the following matters of fact:
On 19 February 2015 (letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-03206) you wrote to us in connection with
‘Close-Out of ADDC Activities’ informing us that “… the Employer has confirmed that [our] electrical
services shop drawing will not be submitted to ADDC. Attached to this letter is the ADDC NOC to allow
you to proceed with the ADDC Stage 3 Application.” This NOC and accompanying letter was prompted
by the Employer's email request dated 19 November 2014, seeking relaxation of certain ADDC approval
procedures. The attached ADDC NOC advised the Employer that based on the Employer’s e-mail
requesting “relaxation [of] and [for ADDC] to accept the deviations for some of the major comments

raised by ADDC ...” [therefore bypassing Stage 2 ‘Shop Drawing review’], ADDC said it had “no objection”
for the Employer to proceed to Stage 3 ('Application for Connection'); as long as the Employer is satisfied
with the consultant’s design. Moreover, within its NOC dated 22 December 2014, ADDC further stated
that: “[The Employer] ADAC shall ensure that all the installations will comply with the Electricity Wiring
Regulations 2009 and [accordingly ADAC] shall be responsible for any issues and implications arising out
of the above deviations at any time.”
A further copy of ADDC's NOC was issued to us under cover of your letter dated 3 March 2015 (ref:
letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-03264) confirming the agreement to bypass Stage 2 and proceed
directly to Stage 3. This meant that we were no longer required to submit shop drawings to ADDC for
approval but were expressly directed by you to proceed with the electrical installations based on the
Engineer-approved shop drawings; our shop drawings being developed from and based upon the IFC
Design Drawings. This was subsequently re-confirmed within our letter dated 22 June 2015 (ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/004999) in which we advised you that in consideration of the NOC, and that as part
of the relaxation of the ADDC approval process, the Employer assumed responsibility for any issues
arising therefrom, and we would not be held liable for any comments from ADDC inspectors for any
non-compliance with ADWR 2009, or ADWR 2014, or for any preferential requirements for the electrical
installations during Stage 3 or 4 of the ADDC inspection / approval process.
However, it is clear the Employer failed to take on and administer that responsibility and through you,
are attempting to hold us liable for various issues identified in the IFC Electrical Design by ADDC
inspectors that have been ‘rejected’ during subsequent ADDC inspections. Once such issue is that
identified above: namely that “Water-proof sockets and switches shall be used in damp areas”.
We remind you that the subject of wet and damp area has also been discussed variously between us and
culminated in the issuance on 24 July 2018 of Engineer’s Instruction No. 749 (via your letter dated 23
July 2019, ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09749) instructing us to upgrade elements of the electrical
design. However, having followed your Instruction (EI No. 749) we note that the foregoing comments
from ADDC cited above, is out of the scope of the exercise and definition of the wet areas.
We are therefore appreciably disappointed to find out yet again that you are not taking any proactive
action to resolve these types of rejections but leave it to us solve the problem with ADDC; this takes
time, added to which, it is severely disrupting our progress and that of our subcontractors.
If the Form 4 inspection process continues to be affected on the grounds of electrical design related
matters, which are out with our scope of works and responsibility and is not addressed forthwith
between the Employer/Employer’s Design Consultant and ADDC, then this will continue to prevent
energization of the final Distribution Boards and resultantly will have a direct and consequential effect
on the inspection process and similarly effect the project testing and commissioning schedule. This will
impact our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B and achievement of Milestone MS09C.
We urge you to ensure the issue is resolved between the Employer’s Design Consultant and ADDC.
Finally, while acknowledging that many of the letters associated with this event pre-date SAA8, this
matter cannot possibly be construed as forming part of the ‘Included Circumstances’ (as per Clause 1.7.4
of SAA8) as SAA8 cannot reasonably be interpreted as requiring the Contractor to absorb delays of
unknown (possibly unlimited) durations post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the
matter causing the delay lies with the Employer. We contend that in these circumstances, the
responsibility, under the Contract (as amended by SAA8), for such delays lies with the Employer.
Yours faithfully,
