Subject:
Sector 5.18 & 5.23

Letter of Justification of Concrete Lid Slab under Escalators and Stairs at CP L2.0

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and the emails enclosed herewith requesting us to provide further
explanation on the matter; we hereby provide the history of events associated with the works as per the
subject matter:
•
Based on the Design as per IFC Drawings series ‘G’, the works for fire compartmentation under
the escalators and stairs at CP L2.0 Sector 5.18 & 5.23, consist of a 2-hour fire resistance rating. The IFC
Drawings however, do not specify the type of material or system to be used for the 2-hour fire
resistance rating (i.e if it is a lid system with gypsum or concrete or any other material or any other
system);
•
As a result, due to the inefficiencies in the Design and the incomplete information provided to
us in the Contract, we raised the RFI referenced (1), requesting more clarity in regards to the 2-hour fire
resistance rating to be constructed, at the mentioned locations;
•
Specifically, with RFI 7941 we requested clarity on:
(i)
how the drywalls under the escalators and stairs will be structurally supported on the top; and
(ii)
what are the exact compartmentation requirements within the drywalls under the escalators
and stairs.
•
In accordance with the Fire Strategy Report [Volume 3 of 4 DESIGN REPORTS Book 20 of 24], a 2hour fire resistance rated system must be constructed under the escalators and stairs. As stated above,
the IFC drawings do not provide details in regards to the system and material to be used. Therefore, the
mentioned RFI was raised to provide more clarity on the Design. In the said RFI, we also requested the
Engineer to issue IFC drawings based on the requirements accordingly;
•
The Engineer responded to the RFI indicating a 2-hour fire resistance rated gypsum lid system,
with steel structural framing, as shown in the drawing ‘ASK 1782’, attached in RFI 7941 (also enclosed
herewith). Please note that the system shown in the drawing ‘ASK 1782’ has never been issued to us as
an official Engineer’s Instruction (EI). Also, the Engineer responded to our comments about the
structural support on top of the drywalls by clarifying that the drywalls must be extended to the
underside of the fire rated ceiling below the escalators;
•
We note that RFI 7941 was issued and was responded incorporating information only for the
escalators and stairs at CP L2.0 Sector 5.23. We also note that the escalators and stairs at CP L2.0 CP

Sector 5.18 have similar function with the escalators and stairs of Sector 5.23. However, the Engineer
did not specify in its RFI response about the requirements of the 2-hour fire resistance rating at Sector
5.18;
•
Subsequently to the RFI response, we had meetings for Briefing Pack (BP) 12 and 16, where we
discussed the requirements for the 2-hour fire resistance rated system and we requested further
clarification for the system required at Sector 5.18;
•
During the BPs mentioned above, we were provided with sketches ‘ASK 3184 BP 16 (Sheet 02 of
03)’ enclosed herewith, which also show a 2-hour fire rated lid system under the escalator and stairs at
sector 5.18, but did not provide any information on the material to be used;
•
It is a common practice between the parties during the BPs, to jointly sign sketches which are
then subsequently used for implementation of the works on site. In this case during BP 12 and 16, we
did not sign any sketch. As per the Engineer’s explanation during the meeting, a new Bulletin would be
issued, providing an Engineer’s Instruction for these works accordingly;
•
We put on record that Bulletin 218 (B218) which was issued after the BPs 12 and 16, did not
include any drawings or further information as previously informed by the Engineer, for the 2-hour fire
rated lid system. We enclosed herewith, the Minutes of Meeting of 3rd November 2016, where this
issue was discussed and as seen in item 40, the Engineer stated that “-all other outstanding arch
sketches mentioned in the above list dated 160816 (except the 3 nos Gas and downstand) will be issued
in a new bulletin”. Please note that the sketches mentioned by the Engineer in the above MoM, are yet
to be received.
•
In addition, please note that the Design of the Glass Reinforced Concrete (GRC) Arrival tunnel
shown in IFC drawing ref ‘MTC A 07 TB L 00. 456.00’ from Level 3 to Level 1, does not indicate any
structural support for the GRC tunnel, apart from the structural slab on level 2. As per the IFC Drawings,
we note that the only support for the GRC’s structural load (which is significantly heavy), would be from
the lid system to be constructed, under the escalator and stairs. Therefore, it is an undisputed fact that a
lid system incorporated by gypsum material, would not have been sufficient to take the structural load
of the GRC tunnel;
•
For the reasons stated above, we had further meetings with the Employer, where it was agreed
to proceed with a 2-hour fire rated concrete instead of a gypsum material in both locations at CP L2.0
Sector 5.18 and 5.23. The main reasons which a decision was taken by the parties to proceed with a
concrete solution, for the 2-hour fire rated lid system instead of gypsum as initially discussed in RFI
7941, are the following:
(i)
due to the significant heavy load of the GRC arrival tunnel which would be supported by the
concrete lid system under the escalators and stairs;
(ii)
the works have been expedited using concrete instead of gypsum since concrete can be
constructed faster; and
(iii)
the MEP services can be hanged from the concrete lid system but not from a gypsum lid system.
•
In light of the aforementioned, it has been jointly agreed with the Employer, to proceed with the
works of a 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid system in both locations at CP L2.0 Sector 5.18 &
5.23;
•
Consequently, the shopdrawings for the ‘General Arrangement’, ‘MEP’ and ‘Structural works’
have been submitted incorporating the 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid for approval, which has
been constructed. However, the comments received by the Engineer and the Engineer’s Design
Consultant for the shopdrawings of ‘General Arrangement’ and ‘Structural works’ have been code 3. The
Engineer’s reason providing code 3 for the aforementioned submitted shopdrawings ref
‘SDS/0401/S/4092-00 & SDS/0401/S/4096-00’, has been due to the Engineer’s response in RFI 7941,
requesting a 2-hour fire rated gypsum system. However, the Engineer has not taken into consideration

that the RFI response requesting a 2-hour fire rated gypsum lid was superseded and replaced by a 2hour fire rated concrete lid, after the subsequent discussions with the Contractor and the Employer;
•
It is worth mentioning that, the ‘MEP’ shopdrawings which incorporate the 2-hour fire rated
concrete lid constructed, have received code 2. Also, our structural calculations submitted via
DS/0401/11842 for the 2-hour fire rated concrete lid for the locations discussed herein, have also
received code 2;
•
All of the above, have been discussed numerous times and have been agreed with the Employer
prior to implementation;
•
Currently, there are numerous open Work Inspection Requests (WIRs) and NCR-01011 which are
required to be closed so that we can finalize the works.
In view of the above and the fact that the events discussed herein have been previously agreed with the
Employer and consequently the Engineer, we kindly request you to re-code the shop-drawings, enclosed
in the list herewith.
Additionally, we wish to confirm that the events and circumstances discussed herein are deemed to be
known events that occurred prior to the ‘Amendment Effective Date’ included within Settlement
Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8), i.e. 4 September 2018; and accordingly are considered to be
subject to SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.7.2 (‘Contractor’s Settled Claims’) and/or Sub-Clause 1.7.4 (Included
Circumstances’).
In view of the above and your request to provide further explanation on the history of events, we trust
you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will carry out the necessary action as a matter of
urgency.
Yours faithfully,
