Subject P4 Interim Maintenance Concerns
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Site Observation Report (1) and NCR (2) regarding the poor
maintenance of the MEP equipment. We note that a series of meetings took place (refer to attached
MOM) as well as site visits to discuss the issues with the Contractor's FM Team. It is very critical that
the Contractor takes actions expeditiously and whilst the identified issues are still at an early stage
(concerns circa 6% of the building) and before the remaining 94% is turned over to operations.
As you can see from the attached report, the Engineer has pointed out several important issues.
When we questioned the issues in the report during the meetings as well as at site reviews at the FMC
Office, the below listed concerns have been raised:
1. BMS as witnessed at the FM's BMS station on 28 May 2019 is showing many errors. Many
sensors have faulty readings. Some are not communicating at all- many FCUs and VAVs. This
is a serious concern. PCE/Siemens has noted these faults but have not returned back with
answers or the required corrections until now.
2. The Contractor's FM Team has been internally documenting and communicating many issues
such as the ones pointed out in the SOR as early as October 2018, however, the Contractor
has not implemented any actions in order to rectify the issues. The Contractor needs to make
sure that proper and timely action is taken for the corrections by its Subcontractors. The
Engineer has taken some samples of these "FM Site Observation Reports" (please refer to the
attachment) during our meetings but the Contractor needs to share the entirety of these
reports along with an action plan.
3. The Engineer also found that the BMS workstation in the FMC Room does not have the full
license as the one in the FCC. For example, the set points are not visible to the FM operators
available 24/7 at the BMS Station. This will create issues in the monitoring of the system.
4. Although the building received BCC and is deemed as ready for full automation on 15 March

2019, your FM team obtained the BMS password from PCE on May 1, i.e. six and a half weeks
later.
5. Some rooms are reported to be over-cooled such as the SCRs and electrical rooms. Physical
temperature readings have been recorded as low as 17 or 18 degrees whereas the set point
for the equipment is 22 or 23 degrees. It is not surprising that there is condensation in some
rooms due to temperature fluctuations such as these.
6. Leak Detection System (LDS) panels in Gate Houses are reported to be not communicating
with the BMS. LDS is your only defense if your CD pump malfunctions. If LDS is not working
the Contractor is to explain how will it monitor the potential water leaks in SCRs? Such leaks
can be very costly to the IT equipment inside the racks below.
7. The Observation Report/NCRs also points to the existence of dirty ducts. Until the snagging
and de-snagging of the building is complete, more dust is expected to be generated as could
be evidenced from presence of dust in the air within Pier 4. The same is more pronounced in
other piers and will ultimately have a negative impact on the previously approved duct
cleaning process and a series of duct cleaning validation process should be adopted by the
Contractor to meet the Project's Specification requirements.
The above list is not exhaustive and there are further issues that are also related to maintenance. The
Contractor is therefore requested to immediately proceed with the required actions in order to rectify
the above and set up a meeting with your construction, commissioning, and FM Teams along with the
Employer, the Engineer and CxA representatives in order to provide a clear way forward regarding
hpw these issues and concerns will be resolved before the r~~t of the building reaches the same level
of completeness as in Pier 4.
We note that any delays associated with the above concerns shall be solely attributable to the
Contractor and we hereby reserve the Employer's rights pursuant to Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of
Contract.
Yours faithfully,
