Dear Sir,

We acknowledge receipt of your letter reference MTB-CCM-TCAJV-L01304 received on 09 December
2019, which is in response to our letter reference MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000561 dated 09 July 2018. Further,
we note your letter states that it provides updated cost particulars up to 30 September 2018 in relation
to your interim extension of time claim and provides further clarifications against questions asked by
TCA JV in previous meetings and emails. In consideration of this, we would like to comment as follows:
We note that the particulars and attachments provided within the referenced letter above are those
which were issued to Michael Delve via email on 08 December 2018 as an advance copy. TCA JV would
like to confirm that they issued an immediate response (see attached) to this email on 09 December
2018, which we have yet to receive a response too. Notwithstanding this, we would therefore (without
prejudice) like to reiterate below the pertinent points from our email response, as well as additional
feedback provided in our earlier emails to you regarding the same subject matters. For ease of
reference we have used applicable subheadings:
Compensable Periods
CCM’s latest claim submission for additional prolongation costs (and all other previous submissions) is
not aligned to CCM’s previously submitted delay analysis. Rather than apply the compensable days (ex.
800 days between June 2015 to August 2018) to the applicable monthly costs, CCM cost submissions are

claiming costs linked to 100% of time within the applicable periods i.e. 1188 days from June 2015 to
August 2018.
Accordingly, we recommend CCM to resubmit their claim submission together with the applicable
compensable days against the relevant monthly costs. Typically, we would expect to see a schedule,
which identifies CCM’s monthly costs, an average daily rate against each applicable month and the
number of compensable days in that month. This would allow CCM to highlight what actual costs were
incurred at the time of the compensable delay;
Forecasted Costs
We note that your latest claim submission still contains forecasted costs, namely 1) Period 01 July 2018
to 15 August 2018, and 2) 01 October 2018 to 30 June 2019. This offers some confusion as CCM were
instructed during the meeting held on 31 October 2018 and subsequent emails not to include any
forecasted costs, as claim submissions should only include actual costs incurred.
If CCM are simply including these costs to provide an estimated lookahead, then it would be more
beneficial to submit such costs separately. The inclusion of forecasted costs within claim submissions
only distorts the overall figures, particularly when both parties are trying to reach a commercial
settlement.
Discrepancies amongst Submissions and Actual Costs
We note that CCM’s latest cost submission presents different actual costs against the same periods
within previous submissions. This is by no means helpful given the time which has been expended
reviewing and assessing the previous submissions. The following example shows the disparities
between costs heads and amounts being claimed:

Nr

Cost Head
Period: 04-Jul 15 to 11 May 16
Period: 12 May 16 to 31 July 16
Ref: Nick Toft’s email dated 28 Oct’18 – Actual Costs up to 30 June 2018 Ref: Letter 1304 dated 08 Dec’18 – Actual Cost up to 30 Sept’18
Ref: Nick Toft’s email dated 28 Oct’18 – Actual
Costs up to 30 June 2018
Ref: Letter - 1304 dated 08 Dec’18 – Actual Cost up to 30 Sept’18
1
Staff Costs
2,009,867.39 2,006,530.29 4,753,774.44 4,744,483.12
2
Labour Accommodation & Transportation
75,941.49
163,713,71
1,010,104.98
1,124,082.96
In consideration of the above differences (and others which may exist), we would appreciate the
following:
•
Justification as to why they have changed;
•
Exactly which costs have changed (month/day) within CCM’s costs schedules;
•
A list of additional records that have been provided to support the revised costs, including their
location within the latest sub-folders;

Additional Records
Since our last meeting on 31 October 2018, we have issued several emails relating to our interim
assessment confirming what information / clarifications were still outstanding. If CCM have now
addressed these queries and provided any additional records to further support the previously assessed
costs, we would appreciate a definitive list confirming what and where these records are located within
the latest sub folders. This will ensure our assessment is not prolonged looking through records which
have already been reviewed.
Loss of Interest / Finance Charges
CCM’s latest submission includes for 1) ‘loss of interest claim’ against retention; 2) loss of interest claim’
against prelims not recovered from ‘on-holds’ works; 3) loss of interest claim against prolongation costs
and 4) finance charges linked to a bank loan. However, it is the JV’s opinion that there is duplication in
this approach, as they relate back to the same cost heads not recovered as a result of the delays on the
project.
Further, the applied interest rate of 16% is based upon a cash loan from a bank, which cannot be applied
to the principle of gaining interest against money sat in an account. Similarly, the principle of applying
16% against prelims not recovered is also not correct, as this is related to expenditure and not money
which would have sat in an account gaining interest. With the exception of the finance charges related
to the bank loan, the loss of interest claims do not prove that an actual loss has been incurred.
In addition, CCM are claiming finance charges against a bank loan they had to take out due to alleged
incurred costs estimated around circa AED26,000,000, which were not recovered under Subcontract
Agreement prior to March 2017. While the supporting narrative provides a high-level breakdown of the
related costs (ex. Prelims, mock-ups, head office overheads and procurement of materials) there are no
further particulars to demonstrate and evidence why this money was due under the Subcontract. As
mentioned previously in our meetings the JV needs to see a clear cause and effect link. A copy of CCM’s
planned vs actual monthly cashflow would be helpful in this instance.
Head Office Overhead Recovery
CCM’s latest submission includes for 1) head office overheads that have been calculated through the
Emden Formula, and 2) head office overheads that have been calculated by applying their contractual
overhead percentage of 6% against their total costs for prolongation. However, such approach would
be a duplication of head office overheads. If CCM believe this is not the case, then further clarification is
required to demonstrate why both methods of calculations should be considered and why there is no
duplication.
Notwithstanding this, it is worthwhile noting at this point that the JV will not entertain any formula
calculations as they are based upon theoretical loss and must be supported with sufficient evidence to
prove loss of opportunity;
Extended Warranties
Setting aside the arbitrary calculation used to calculate the extended warranties, CCM are required to
explain 1) why the Sub-Contract BoQ amounts have been 100% proportioned across various materials,
knowing that these amounts include for other elements such as installation costs, head office overheads
and profits, and risk etc; 2) the calculation takes into account 37 months of project delays, but CCM’s

latest TIA is confirming 851 compensable days, which does not equate to 37 months; and 3) can you
confirm the basis of the applied ‘Claim likelihood’ percentage?
Labour Transportation, Accommodation & Food
Such costs are typically task related and would not normally be considered part of a prolongation claim.
TCA JV required CCM to provide justification (with supporting evidence) to demonstrate why such costs
should be considered as part of their interim claim for prolongation costs.
Staff
The 13th month salary bonus as per Italian law must be supported with evidence, including but not
limited to proof that the employee’s received this bonus.
We look forward to your prompt response against the above. Should you have queries regarding any of
the above, then please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,
