
TCAJV correspondence
Dear Sir,
With regards to the above subject and reference to our letter MTB/TCA/BOND/L/000 l 05,

please note that we have not received any response from you till to date.
Further to our previous letter, we hereby de-scope all relevant interface PBB Cabling
Works. Subsequently, we will be issuing a negative Variation Order 'for this scope based
on the Schedule of Rates as summarised below.

Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- MTB Project
1. Letter of Award (LOA) for Design, Fabrication, Supply and
Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Work Package
dated 23 October 2013
2. Minutes of Rosano Progress Meeting No.18 held on 31 August2014
3. TCAJV email dated 01 September 2014 (by Mr. Abhulimhen Peter)
4. Workshop held on 11 September 2014
Notice of Delay and Lack of Coordination by Rasana Sd/~
~
cf<;z ... ~~74We write with reference to the Letter of Award signed for the Design, Fabrication, Supply
and Installation of Lifts Steel Structure & Steel Staircase Subcontract Works Package
dated 23 October 2013 and further to Item no.7 of the Minutes of RASANA Progress
Meeting No.18 dated 31 August 2014 which states, inter alia, that "No elevator Shaft
frame in the Piers is complete. RASANA has completed survey works for all lifting beams
on site. ( ... ) RASANA is to coordinate with TCAJV and OTIS site team ... "and the agreed
"sequence of the handover of Elevator Shaft Works", and TCAJV email dated 01
September 2014 which states " ... Currently no shaft frame is complete at site (RASANA
are stepping up efforts to close out the NCR and complete one shaft- EL V 03-22 by next

week)" and the workshop held with you on 11 September 2014 regarding the delays in
your Works and lack of coordination with other trade/s (all referred to above) and the
enclosed "RASANA's MTB PROJECT- ELEVATOR SHAFTS PROGRAM dated 04 September
2014" (enclosed) which shows delays in your Works.
Under Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] your
obligations include:
"12.12.1 In addition to its obligations pursuant to clause 12.11 (Cooperation), the
Subcontractor agrees that its access to the Site will not be exclusive and that Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently with
the Subcontract Works.
12. 12.2 The Subcontractor shall:
(a) cooperate with the Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors to ensure the
coordination of the work of the Other Subcontractors with the execution of the
Subcontract Works including timeframes, programmes and schedules for completion of
the Subcontract Works;( ... ) (c) take such actions as are necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other
Contractor or
Other Subcontractor ( ... ) . ".
Accordingly, you are hereby requested to coordinate your Works including the design
with Other Subcontractors (including but not limited to Otis) and coordinate the shop
drawings with the Engineer.
Subcontract 12.12.3 further provides that:
"12. 12.3 The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays,
disruptions and costs it may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be
performed by Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with
its obligations pursuant to this clause 12. 12 including but not limited to those interfaces set
out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) ( ... ).The Subcontractor

agrees that it shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply with its obligations
pursuant to this clause 12. 12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for
submission of the tender.
12. 12.4 The Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer,
Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors (or any other contractor, Sub-subcontractor
or supplier) for costs, monies, loss, expense, damage or otherwise, arising out of or in
connection with a breach of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the
Subcontract.".
Furthermore, it is noted that under Subcontract Clause 16.6.1 if you fail to comply with the
approved Subcontract Programme you shall indemnify and hold us harmless against all
damages, costs, losses and expenses incurred by us in connection with your delays.
Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.6.2 provides that "( ... ) if the Subcontractor fails to
comply with clause 16.2 (Subcontract Time for Completion), the Subcontractor shall,
subject to clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claims), pay delay damages to the Contractor for
this default.".
Finally, you are hereby instructed to submit site progress reports on a weekly basis which
shall be made available at every weekly meeting. You are also instructed under
Subcontract Clause 16.4.1 to submit us your revised recovery plan and supporting report
describing the revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite your
progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion ..
The above is for your immediate action.
Dear Sir,

We hereby write to your letter dated 11 May 2015 (the "Letter") which you wrote further to our
letter dated 19 March 2015 stating TCAJV "have instructed [GPC] to provide all necessary means to
accelerate the works ... ", your letter dated 20 June 2015 which you wrote further to our letter dated 18
May 2015 whereby we instructed you under the Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to submit a revised
Subcontract Programme within fourteen {14) days for our approval that complies with the Milestone
Dates, your Submission dated 26 April 2015 which attached your Acceleration Schedule, and your
Submission dated 27 April 2015 which enclosed your cost analysis associated with the Acceleration
Schedule.
By way of clarification, we provide below the "non-exhaustive" chronology for the events following
TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015 and recent correspondence regarding acceleration of your Works
and
our comments.
• TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015 attached a set of keydates in respect of GPC's Subcontract Works
that need to be achieved to support the Employer's strategy, and instructed GPC "to view the dates in
Appendix A against your progressed current approved Programme and to consider the measures that
[GPC] will need to take ... (the 'Measures') to meet these dates in preparation for a 'brain storming'
workshop to be called within the next seven (7} days ... ".
• GPC's letter dated 28 March 2015 stated, inter alia, that they had only achieved 35.08% progress of
the Project as of 19 March 2015 which had taken them 18 months of production and 17 months of
site works, and claimed that this was due to various issues they were not responsible from. It also
stated that they were requested to complete the remaining 65% of the works by 30 October 2015; "in
a net of less than 8 months" and explained the difficulties in doing so. it also stated that the dates
provided were impractical to achieve and could not be achieved irrespective of the measures taken to
accelerate. The letter concluded that it was not "reasonable to expect any acceleration in the works
and completion of the works before the completion as stipulated by the Rev.OS program.".
• Via their letter dated 14 April 2015, GPC submitted their ''Accelerated Programme and Cost

Associated'' with reference to TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015, their letter dated 28 March 2015
and to a meeting held with TCAJV on 08 April 2015. They confirmed their "adherence to [TCAJV]
instruction ... dated 19th Mar'15, in which [TCAJV] requested [GPC] to provide all the necessary means
to accelerate job.".
• GPC's letter dated 26 April 2015 regarding Submission of their ''Accelerated Programme - Work
Analysis'' attached their Acceleration Schedule, made reference to TCAJV's letter dated 19 March
2015 and a meeting held with TCAJV on 08 April 2015, and stated, inter alia, that this letter superseded
their letter dated 14 April 2015.
• The Submission via GPC's letter dated 27 April2015 with subject "Cost Associated to the Accelerated
Program" enclosed their cost analysis associated with the acceleration program and noted that they had
proceeded in recruitment and arranging the needed resources and planned to start deploying the
resources by end of that month. The Submission also listed GPC's requirements "in order for [Gulf
Precast] to abide with this accelerated program and to secure these resources to mobilise on time ... "
and included, inter alia, details of advance payment request and further payments for the acceleration.
• On 05 May 2015, GPC sent a reminder regarding the "Cost associated with the acceleration program"
and stated that till the date of this letter they had not received TCAJV's approval on their acceleration
cost and a clear agreement on paying GPC the 25% advance payment by 07 May 2015, which they stated
was their pre-requisite to follow the acceleration plan as per their letter dated 27 April 2015.
• GPC's letter dated 09 May 2015 stated that their Subcontract Price to execute the Subcontract Works
was AED 130,675,000.00 but "Unfortunately~ more than a year into the Project execution~ we find
ourselves having incurred huge unforeseen costs, with our actual costs of the project of AED
901 3631873.04 up to 31st March 2015 which is 72.76% of the revised subcontract value, while we have
only completed about 40% of the project till date. ". GPC estimated that their cost at completion would
exceed AED 228,341,020.69 (191.92% of the revised subcontract value) and added that "With such
massive loss on this project", they were now in the middle of a deep financial crisis that would affect the
very existence of their Company. GPC also provided the reasons for such costs increase and requested
TCAJV's review of their Subcontract Price.
• GPC's Letter dated 11 May 2015 stated that TCAJV's letter dated 19 March 2015, had " ... instructed
[GPC] to provide all necessary means to accelerate the works on the above mentioned Project"~ in their
letter dated 26 April 2015 they had outlined in full detail how they planned to accelerate the works,
including " ... a detailed programme outlining the deployment of these resources area by area and week
by week until final completion", and that in their letter dated 27 April 2015 they had included a full cost
analysis of the acceleration process as well as a request for advance payment of 25% of the acceleration

cost. It stated, inter alia, that they had met with [TCAJV's] team on the date of the letter and claimed
that the following were discussed and agreed:
"1. Due to the very tight financial situation of Gulf Precast at present, Gulf Precast is not able to shoulder
alone the financial responsibility of deploying the needed extra resources, equipment and material to
achieve the desired acceleration targets.
2. M/s TCAJV is proposing to assist Gulf Precast by assigning to Gulf Precast some of its supervisory staff,
hiring some others, assisting with Subcontractors, as well as procuring the necessary scaffolding,
supporting platforms, equipment and materials required to meet the acceleration targets, all in
coordination between both parties.
3. The cost of such assistance shall be advanced by the TCAJV and considered as part of the acceleration
cost to be awarded to Gulf Precast, and shall supersede and replace our previous estimated cost for
such items in our letter dated 2ih April {13040-GPC-PDHW-TCA. TV-MTB-0285 mentioned above.
4. The above financial assistance shall continue until Gulf Precast receives the requested advance
payment of 25% of the acceleration sum, and subsequently the balance of the acceleration monies after
deducting the TCAJV advances towards acceleration.". GPC also added their requirements for the above
alleged agreement to be workable.
• TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 stated that in their letter dated 19 March 2015 they had enclosed a
series of dates and instructed GPC to review and to propose what GPC would have to do differently in
order to achieve the dates for sectional Taking Over. It also noted ·that subsequently, GPC had attended
workshops to present their proposals, and concerns, related to engineering, procurement and
construction and the additional measures to be taken to ensure the dates were achieved. The letter
further stated that based on these discussions and feedback provided by GPC, a Programme Rev
6 had been produced and submitted to the Engineer for his approval under the Agreement with the
Employer. The letter attached "A copy of this Programme Rev 6, filtered for [GPC's] element of the
Works", added that '~ny significant changes required by the Engineer will be notified to you in due
course.", and instructed GPC pursuant to Clause 16.3.3 of the Conditions of Sub-Contract to submit a
revised Subcontract Programme within fourteen {14) days for their approval that complies with the
Milestone Dates, the intent of the Programme Rev 6, the requirements of Clause 16.3.1, and which
reflects the actual start and finish dates for completed or in progress activities as required by Clause
16.3.2.
• On 25 May 2015, GPC submitted their EOT and Associated Claim (received by TCAJV on 28 May 2015).
• On 01 June, 2015 a meeting was held between the Parties whereby technical, financial issues,
including the below, were discussed:
1- GPC's issues regarding their tight financi

al situation and that they could not accelerate without advance payment and their payment request as
stated in their letter dated 11 May 2015 as per their alleged meeting and agreement with TCAJV
management were suggested to be elevated to management.
2- GPC's letter dated 09 May 2015 under Item 1 d, e and f, were discussed. Since the precast concrete
beam (which was in the schematic design drawings only) changed to steel beam structure, GPC claimed
it (and the connection} was not within their scope of work. However, they stated, with good intent ions,
had already carried out the design steel beam structure, steels struds and the connection.
3- TCAJV rejected that the precast beam was not in GPC's scope as it was clearly shown on the drawings
and stated that if GPC intended to claim variation for this item, this should be considered as negative
variation for the original beam and variation for the new steel beam structure and to take responsibility
for their design. TCAJV also requested GPC to send their design for the steel beam structure along with
the estimated costs. GPC to agreed to do so within 2 days (along with their clarification letter}. 4- TCAJV
stated that GPC's EOT claim had to be submitted for the Engineer's decision/assessment after TCAJV's
review of the same. GPC was requested to continue to meet with the TCAJV's claims/EOT team who will
carry out their EOT review and assist them in maximizing their entitlement. TCAJV also stated that only
after this process, GPC's entitlement to the relevant costs may be determined.
• GPC's letter dated 20 June 2015 (which TCAJV received on 23 June 2015) stated, inter alia, that they
submitted their acceleration programme (data date- 1st Apr '15) and associated costs via their letter
dated 26 April 2015 and followed up the submission with requests to confirm the acceptance of the
programme as well as release of associated acceleration costs enabling them to finance the acceleration
and added that "in the absence of which, we had stated, we will be unable to accelerate the works.".
Moreover, GPC expressed their concern with reference to TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 and stated
that " ... TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 24th May '15 has a data date of 1st Mar '15,
and this program does not match our acceleration program with a data date of 1st Apr '15 submitted via
our afore-mentioned letter on 26th Apr '15, os it has different sequence of works, durations and
completion dates for zones/bridges, while we were progressing on site since 15r Apr '15 as per the
acceleration program submitted to you ( ... ). Consequently, by the time we received the rev.06 program
on 24th May '15, the actual progress was already out of line from the planned dates of the rev.06
program.". GPC confirmed TCAJV's letter dated 18 May 2015 had instructed them pursuant to
Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to revise their subcontract programme of works (Current Baseline
Programme) as per the extract of fTCAJV's] rev.06 program (data date - 1" Mar '15). GPC attached their
"target program for
the works remaining as of 28th Feb' 15" in compliance with TCAJV's rev.06 program and stated that
"once the revised subcontract programme is approved, it shall supersede the previously agreed
subcontract program ( ... ) This effectively translates to an instruction to revise our subcontract
programme of works to achieve revised completion dates, and increase our resources to achieve the
required acceleration.". GPC also noted that "... various planned start/finish dates of the rev.06 program
had elapsed by the time we received your program as well as the fact that the sequence of works

planned in the program is different from the actual progress on site, we cannot take responsibility for
undue delays to the project when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program),
and any consequences of such delays.". The letter also referred to a meeting held on 02 June 2015 at
TCAJV site office and claimed the issues including the below were discussed.
"1. GPC expressed concern on the fact that TCAJV is instructing GPC via its above mentioned letter to
revise the currently approved subcontract programme pursuant to clause 16.3.3 which states among
other things "the Subcontractor shall, without additional compensation, coordinate and revise its
subcontract programme accordingly and as directed by the Contractor" while GPC believes it is entitled
for two costs namely, the prolongation/ extension of time costs and the acceleration costs.
2. Mr. Atakhan of TCAJV clarified that the word "compensation" in the phrase "without additional
compensation" refers to the cost incurred by our Planning Department in "the exercise of revising the
programme" and not the consequential execution costs resulting from revising the programme
dates/rates of execution by increasing resources, and that GPC is duly entitled to such costs or any other
costs under contractual entitlement.
3. Subsequently, it was noted that GPC is to submit a new programme in compliance with the extract of
the revision #6 programme attached to TCAJV's afore-mentioned letter, for the works remaining as of
2B'h Feb '15. 4. With regards to the first EOT claim & prolongation costs in place (as referenced above),
it was noted that TCAJV is currently reviewing the Time Impact Analysis {TIA) programmes and the
associated costs submitted by GPC via its letter ref: 156/ES/SM/13040 dt 25th May '15, and will revert
shortly." GPC's Financial Issues:
In view of the above chronology, your letter dated 28 March 2015 claimed that you had only achieved
35.08% progress of the Project as of 19 March 2015 which had taken you 18 months of production and
17 months of site works due to various issues you were not responsible from, and stated that you were
requested to complete the remaining 65% of the works by 30 October 2015 "in a net of less than 8
months". It also concluded that the dates provided were impractical to achieve and could not be
achieved irrespective of the measures taken to accelerate and that it was not "reasonable to expect any
acceleration in the works and completion of the works before the completion as stipulated by the Rev.
OS program.". However, following workshops, meetings, discussions held, you submitted your
"Accelerated Programme and Cost Associated" on 14 April 2015 which confirmed your "adherence to
[TCAJV] instruction ... dated 19th Mar'15, in which [TCAJV] requested [GPC] to provide all the necessary
means to accelerate job.". You superseded this letter via your letter dated 26 April 2015 whereby you
submitted your acceleration analysis. On 27 April 2015 you submitted your "Cost Associated to the
Accelerated Program" noting that you had proceeded in recruitment and arranging the needed
resources and planned to start deploying the resources by end of that month but listed your
requirements which included 25% advance payment toward the acceleration costs.
On the other hand, your letter dated 09 May 2015 stated that you had incurred 1'huge unforeseen
costs" to your Subcontract Price with our actual costs of the project being 72.76% of the revised
subcontract value (up to 31st March 2015}, while you had only completed about 40% of the project till

date of the letter. You estimated that your cost at completion would exceed 191.92% of the revised
subcontract value and added that due such massive loss on this project, you were now in the middle of a
deep financial crisis and requested TCAJV's review of their Subcontract Price. You claimed that the listed
reasons attributed to such increased costs.
We remind you that under the Subcontract Clause 12.17.2 17he Subcontractor agrees that the
Subcontract Price covers all of the Subcontractor's obligations under the Subcontract ... and all things
necessary for the proper design (to the extent required by the Subcontract), execution and completion
of the Subcontract Works and the remedying of any defects.". However, if you believe you are entitled
to additional costs1 subject to Subcontract Clause 21.2 [Adjustments to the Subcontract Price]. you
should submit your claims in strict compliance with Subcontract Clause 27.1 [Subcontractor's Claims].
GPC's Letter dated 11 May 2015:
In the Letter, you referred to an alleged meeting dated 11 May 2015 whereby you claimed the issues
listed in the chronology (above) were discussed and allegedly If agreed". However, we hereby note that
this meeting not been recorded/minuted by the Parties. Accordingly, you are requested to provide us
records of this meeting. We hereby urge you that such crucial meetings whereby agreements and/or
decisions are allegedly made are recorded and agreed by the Parties in writing and not selectively
quoted in letters in support of arguments.
Moreover, the Letter listed your requirements regarding the acceleration costs and concluded that "In
case we do not receive any feedback from your side by Thursday, 14th May 2015 and taking into
consideration the time criticality of the issue, we will consider that the above-mentioned is agreed by
both parties." which we rejected via our email dated Wednesday, May 13, 2015 2:00 PM with subject
"GPRECAST letter ref: 13040-GPC-PD-HW-TCAJV-MTB-0297/Cost Associated to the Accelerated
Program", and stated that it was not acceptable. Regarding TCAJV's assistance to GPC due to their "very
tight financial situation" and the requested advance payment of 25% of the acceleration sums, we
hereby note that during our meeting held on 01 June 2015 you were requested/advised to elevate your
financial issues to TCAJV management. GPC's letter dated 20 June 2015:
We hereby note your statement " ... TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 241h May '15
has a data date of 1st Mar '15, and this program does not match our acceleration program with a data
date of 1st Apr '15 submitted via our afore-mentioned letter on 26h Apr '15, ... we were progressing on
site since 1st Apr '15 as per the acceleration program submitted to you.".
Regarding your statement that "TCAJV's extract of rev.06 program received by us on 24th· May '15 has a
data date of 1st Mar '15, and this program does not match our acceleration program ... submitted via
our afore-mentioned letter on 2£1h Apr '15 ... Consequently, by the time we received the rev.o6
program on 24th May '15, the actual progress was already out of line from the planned dates of the
rev.06 program ( .. .) various planned start/finish dates of the rev.06 program had elapsed by the time
we received your program as well as the fact that the sequence of works planned in the program is
different from the actual progress on site, we cannot take responsibility for undue delays to the project

when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program), and any consequences of
such delays", we provide our comments as below:
First of all, it is evident from the chronology, you were aware of the key dates to be achieved as per
early as 19 March 2015 as these dates were enclosed to our letter and you were instructed to view them
against your progressed current approved Programme and to consider the measures that you would
need to take. Moreover, in the event you needed to accelerate your Subcontract works in order to meet
the revised dates you were required to demonstrate the additional Costs. Secondly, as stated in our
letter dated 18 May 2015 subsequent to our instruction on 19 March 2015, "you attended workshops to
present your proposals/ and concerns, related to engineering, procurement and construction and the
additional measures to be taken to ensure the dates were achieved ... ", and based upon our discussions
and your feedback a Programme Rev 6 had been produced and submitted for the Engineer's approval.
Accordingly, we attached a copy of the Programme Rev 6 filtered for your Works to our letter and
instructed you pursuant to Subcontract Clause 16.3.3 to submit a revised Subcontract Programme for
our approval that complies with, including, the Milestone Dates and the intent of the Programme Rev 6.
Accordingly, we reject your statement that you "cannot take responsibility for undue delays to the
project when compared to the attached target program (based on rev.06 program)/ and any
consequences of such delays". Furthermore, despite you submitted your acceleration "target program
for the works remaining as of 28th Feb/ 15" in compliance with TCAJV's rev.06 program" via your letter
dated 20 June 2015, we hereby note that to date you have not submitted the cost associated with your
acceleration programme dated 20 June 2015 which revised your Submission dated 26 April 2015.
Nonetheless, you have been requesting TCAJV to release advance payment for the acceleration costs
you submitted on 27 April 2015 associated with your Accelerated Programme dated 26 April 2015
stating that the 25% advance payment was your "prerequisite" to follow the acceleration plan which is
now replaced by target programme dated 20 June 2015 for which you have not submitted the
associated costs.
Regarding your reference to a meeting held on 02 June 2015 at TCAJV site office, we are not aware of a
meeting held with you on this date but note that a meeting was held with you at our offices on 01 June
2015. While we disagree with the alleged meeting's date, we agree the issues discussed during this
meeting included those you listed in addition to those we set out above. Finally, in view of the above,
you are required to submit your costs associated with your acceleration programme submitted on 20
June 2015 which shall be reviewed by us and submitted for the Engineer's assessment. Regarding
assistance due to your "very tight financial situation", we hereby suggest you to meet and discuss your
financial issues with TCAJV management.
Yours truly,
