Subject Breach of Conditions of Contract- Contractor's Claims pursuant to HOA
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the Engineer's alleged
breach of the Conditions of Contract in relation to the Contractor's Claims pursuant to the Heads of
Agreement (HOA).
We concur with t he Contractor's statement that the issue has been previously addressed by the
Engineer and that the Engineer has repeated the same position put forth in prior correspondence. The

Contractor has been requested numerous times to submit the required substantiation to support an
entitlement with regard to the claimed cost.
The Engineer refutes the assertion that for more than a year has made no effort to agree or det ermine
the amounts due. The Engineer's efforts are well documented via the numerous correspondence issued
throughout the year to the Contractor, urging for the necessary records to be submitted and the proper
substantiation to be achieved in order to enable the Engineer to determine the submitted Claims. These
are listed below for ease of reference as follows:
The Contractor shall abstain from issuing any further spurious correspondence regarding the alleged
"Breach of Contract" by the Engineer.
We note that a way forward has been agreed by the Engineer and the Contractor at the meeting held on
7 March 2017 and we look forward to receiving the Subcontractor's substa ntiation as agreed at the
meeting and confirmed via correspondence ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06945 dated 9 March 2017.
Subject Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
Dear Sir;
We examined your reference letter dated 26 September 2016 regarding Breach of Contract in Relation
to Contractors
Instructions.
We acknowledge receipt of your above reference letter and would confirm our position that Briefing
Pack workshops,
studies, sketches and any relevant documentations does not form part of our Subcontract agreement.
This process is
established with the following intent described in every Briefing Pack earlier instructions however the
wording has
been allegedly modified out of our control, knowledge and consent that we strongly disagree due to
reasons raised
earlier through our letter dated 17th Mar 2016 however have never been properly responded so far.
"The intent of the Briefing Pack is to alert us and you intended changes to the Works, which will be
workshopped in
collaboration with the Employer, Engineer, us and effected subcontractors with the intent of
accelerating the
remaining design and engineering coordination of the Works. This process should result in fully
coordinated IFC
Drawings being issued by the Employer's Design Consultant thereby reducing the need for an extensive
RFI process"
We have duly attended to such Workshops with immediate effect pursuant to Subcontract Clause
11.3.1. and 20.3
with our upmost contribution for the success of this process.
However we have never received a fully coordinated IFC Drawings issued by the Employer's Design
Consultant since

the date this practice started. Instead, we have received changes in the wording of such Briefing Pack
instructions
waiving all their liabilities in relation to issuance of fully coordinated IFC Drawings but instructing us to
carry out works
in the absence of fully coordinated IFC drawings with sketches issued in stages. Such instructions with
sketches does
not form part of our Subcontract agreement. We are unable to give immediate effect to such
instructions as further
coordination is required with all disciplines ensuring that all changes in relation with Briefing Pack is
captured and
closed. None of the Briefing Pack's "Closure" have been achieved so far. The "Closure" of Briefing Packs
would only be
achieved by a fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by the Design Consultant who has complete
ownership of the
Design. Accordingly we do not accept your allegations with statement that we are in a breach of
contract and totally object to such Contract administration changes unilaterally enforced with an
attempt to misuse Subcontract Clause
11.3.1.
Design responsibility is not within the Subcontractor scope of work; and such design responsibility could
not be
instructed as a Variation as per the terms of our Subcontract. Thus any claim on the contrary is against
the terms and
conditions of our Subcontract. It should be noted that ANEL shall implement any Variation which is
falling within the
definition of Variation under our Subcontract and is instructed by the Contractor as per Clause 11.3. For
that reason
ANEL, as an experienced subcontractor strictly complying with the terms our Subcontract, does not
accept any claim
regarding a breach of our Subcontract relating to Contractor's Instructions.
Briefing Pack Instructions became an uncontrolled process that none of the Party could guess the impact
of those
Briefing Packs and the impact to its interfaces instead those impacts would have been well studied and
workshopped
along with the technical discussions ensuring all stakeholders being aware of such changes and its
consequences that
eventually would eliminate unnecessary discussions both Commercially and Contractually as those
changes give rise
to adjustment to the Subcontract price and extension the Subcontract time for Completion.
Notwithstanding the above, we hereby confirm that we have never refused an instruction and suspend
any works in
relation to such instruction and we have carried out all instructions in due diligence although the
necessary

Specification, Drawings Instruction consent or approval is not issued to the Subcontractor pursuant to
Subcontract
Clause 9.10.3 within a reasonable time taking into account the Subcontract Programme, the Contractor's
Programme
and the progress of the Subcontract Works and pursuant to Subcontract Clause 9.10.4 hereby notify you
that
Subcontractor suffers delay and/or incurs Cost as a result of a failure of the Contractor to issue the
notified
Specification, Drawing or instruction by the time and shall be entitled to extension of Subcontract Time
for Completion
and Adjustment to the Subcontract price in accordance with Subcontract Clauses 16.5 and 21.2
For the sake of argument, our letter dated 1st May 2016 has been responded by the Contractor 4
months back
however the concerns have not been properly addressed therefore remains open. Our following
concerns are hereby
repeated for your reference.
1. A proper contractual mechanism is required to define each and every aspects in respect to design
responsibility and signed by duly authorized representative of each party to be effective. Subcontract
Clause
9.20.1 applies. It is also defined under Subcontract Clause 24.3 "Contractor's Risk" and Clause 24.4
"Consequences of Contractor's Risks" applies.
"9.20.1. Any amendments to the terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall only be effective if in
writing
and signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. Any amendments to the scope of the
Subcontract Works shall be subject to the provisions of clause 20 (Variations and Adjustments)"
Contractor responded advising ANEL to raise any non-conformance. It is being carried out during the
Workshops however it does not address our above concern.
2. Design Coordination and Shop drawing Coordination are different stages. Responsibility of each is
under
different entity. We would not accept Design Coordination responsibility while having BIM coordination
and
shop drawings. We concur with your statement that the Design Consultant to take complete ownership
of the
design however no any single fully coordinated IFC have been issued so far which in turn is alarming. We
would definitely in need of "Closure" of Briefing Packs in order to obviate any ambiguities that might
arise in
a later stage. The "Closure" of Briefing Pack would only be obtained by a fully coordinated IFC drawing
issued
by the Design Consultant.
Contractor's response never happened as we have submitted lots of Shop Drawings however Design
Consultant have never issued any IFC Drawing with their title block to take complete ownership of the
Design.

Therefore we understand "Closure" of Briefing Pack has never been achieved. We do not accept signed
off sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as
part of instruction for the implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official
documentation for a variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained
in our
letter dated 1st May 2015. In respect to the timing of the issuance of the IFC drawings we are only
aware of
Design Consultant's intention to reduce the need for an extensive RFI process by the Briefing Pack
workshops.
Therefore we do not agree with your statement " ... wait for and IFC drawing from consultant ...... the
relevance
behind such works would become irrelevant I questionable ... " It contradicts to the intention of the
Briefing
Pack workshops whereby originally stated.
Contractor stated that ".The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed
previously ... " However we have not received any feedback so far. Please refer to our statement in the
4th
paragraph of this letter.
4. It is imperative to note that Briefing Packs are all received after 5th of Mar 2015 being the cut-off of
the events
for the extension of time. Therefore none of the post assigned either full time or part time for Briefing
Packs
are under our Extension of Time Submission. Therefore there is no duplication on the recovery of those
costs.
On the other hand we have been receiving time sheets recently with some of our designations crossed
being
not approved. We would expect an explanation since all the designations effectively worked in relation
with
Briefing Packs. Some of those timesheets are attached for your reference.
-Contractor's statement " ... We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of
writing
we are still within the original contract period." However at that time of writing we might have been
within
the original contract period but with increased number of resources due to such additional works with
additional cost incurred and at this time of writing we are out of original contract period and we strongly
in
demand for full preliminaries payment either incurred earlier or being due. Please also refer to our letter
Ref.
No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3761 dated 25th Sep 2016
- Additional resources assigned for Briefing Packs in relation to Planning and Commercial have never
been
approved and paid so far.

5. Should you require the shop drawings to be prepared before fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by
the
Design Consultant we would request to include the staff allocated for the revision of those shop
drawings due
to Briefing Packs in the same time sheets of each relevant workshop since again signed off sketches I
drawings
issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings does not constitute an official documentation for
a
variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Further
confirmation of Contractor is required.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
6. We have sent a valuation in respect to Briefing Pack No. 09 to verify if the changes are captured
through the
shop drawings in the absence of IFC drawings are acceptable to the Employer I Employer representative
however we have not received any feedback so far.
Contractor informed that they await determination by the Employer however we have not received
anything
yet although all cost in relation to it is incurred and overdue
7. Shop drawing approvals are the basis of any Procurement activity. Once again we do not accept
signed off
sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as part of instruction for the
implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official documentation for a
variation due
to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Therefore we do not accept
any
delay in any procurement activity unless the proper mechanism is attained. The Procurement activities
are carried out upon completion of shop drawings. Sketches would not be
appropriate tool to generate necessary take-off for such procurements. Therefore such time to prepare
shop
drawings needs to be allowed for Briefing Pack procurement activities.
8. We would be expecting urgent confirmation to our solution stated in item no. 5 above. Accordingly it
would
be easier to follow up by the Contractor if it constitutes a cost saving.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
9. Please refer to our response in item no. 6 and no. 7 above.
We have not yet received any reply to any of our Briefing Pack variation submission to verify our
valuation
submission on the basis of shop drawings in the absence of IFC Drawings.

10. The extend of the impact of the Briefing Packs are considerably massive. The way of substantiation
of those
impacts might be totally isolation of the works in relation with the Briefing Packs. This would be
obtained by
way of holding all the works in such areas that the Briefing Pack workshops are being carried out and
resuming
the activities by the approval of relevant shop drawings. An immediate confirmation of Contractor is
required
as we have been suffering a loss due to disruption caused by changes totally beyond our control and
knowledge, and put in a position to struggle to substantiate that. We would also refer to our letters ref.
no.
MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2773 dated 17th Feb 2016, MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2870 dated 7th Mar 2016 and MTBANEL-TCAL2993 dated 3rd Apr 2016 for the Briefing Pack effects on Ceiling and Slab Works.
Ou r above proposal have not been taken into account resulting in unavoidable disruption to our works
causing
additional cost that we have submitted for compensation with all our substantiation however not yet
responded.
11. Contractor confirmation is required as stated above in item no. 10.
We have not received any confirmation in relation to segregation of Time and Cost elements in the
determination process of our variations. Therefore we have been advised by %60 of the cost what is
incurred
although all the backup documents, substantiations, take-off as such are available for Engineer's review
and
determinations.
12. Briefing Packs do not fall under this definition of Variation as explained above therefore a method of
valuation
and payment is urgently required.
We have not yet experienced the same practice with Contractor's statement of " ... Briefing Packs are
changes
to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict accordance with the Sub-Contract
Clauses/Conditions ... " Therefore our concern is still valid.
13. A confirmation of Employer I Employer representative is required due to huge amount of cost
involvement
on those changes.
We do not have any intention to intervene to any parties' internal procedures however we have
concerns that
Change Management Practices are important for both determination of the valuation and payment of
the
same as special mechanisms are required such as sufficient budgeting as no reputable Companies would
allow

payment unless it is sufficiently Budgeted and such Budgets are allowed. In respect to the extent of
changes introduced through Briefing Packs, there are 86 no's of Briefing Packs received
after the first Time Extension change cut-off of 5th March 2015, 55 no's of them are having direct cost
and time impact
on our Scope of Electrical Works. They have significantly disrupted the Project Progress with continuing
effect and
jeopardized the milestones and project completion dates within our approved Programme of Electrical
Works Rev.4
prepared in accordance with Contractor Programme of Overall Works Rev. 6.2. Whilst the balance of 31
no's of Briefing
Packs are having cost and time impact to the scope of others that we do not have any knowledge how
the Programme
of Overall Works have been effected. We have prepared a time impact analysis due to such changes
beyond 5th of
Mar 2015 and demonstrated a second time extension in effect with all costs incurred till End of July
2016 and sent
through our letter with Ref. No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3654 dated 27 August 2016. This letter remains not
responded. We
have been waiting for a Programme of the Overall Works from the Contractor taking into account all the
changes
introduced beyond 5th Mar 2015 with its impact to each and every Programme of Subcontractor Works
demonstrating
further impact to our works due to others. The list of Briefing Pack is attached for your reference. This
list includes 14
no's of the Briefing Packs instructed to be kept "on Hold" until further notice through attached letter
Ref. No.
MTB/TCA/ANEL/L/003013 dated 8th Jun 2016. On the other hand we believe that those Briefing Packs
on hold will
definitely be introduced as a change in a later stage and will have serious impact on the project
completion.
In conclusion, we have been volunteered a Briefing Pack workshop process, ended up with so many
changes never
ceased, instructed through non-contractual ways, unable to administer technically, commercially and
contractually,
impacted Project Milestones and Time for Completion, caused serious disruption with additional cost
however our
attempt with substantiation of the time and cost impacts have yet to be entertained and seems refused
although we
have implemented all of those changes in due diligence. We hereby would also hold you fully culpable
for all
consequences arising out of such non contractual involvement decided on Contractors own discretion
with agreement

of the Employer out of our control and knowledge.
Therefore we do not accept any liability for any delays in the implementation of Briefing Packs due to
above reasons
and reserve our rights pursuant to 16.5 (Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion), 21.2
(Adjustment to the
Subcontract Price, 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claim).
Thanking you for your considerations
Subject: Wording for Engineers Instruction Related t o Briefing Packs
Dear Sir;
3 0 1-iAY Z016
We have received your letter referenced MTB-ANEL-TCA-l -3268 dated 1st May 2016 and respond as
follows:
Whilst we acknowledge your concerns pertaining to briefing packs and your assessment that the same
does not form part of your Subcontract Agreement, we write to confirm that this is not an opinion we
share. The Briefing Pack change is that of a variation to your contract and as such is to be valued in
accordance with the Subcontract Conditions.
In response to your letter we shall respond to the points raised respectively:
Item 1 - The subcontract documents indicate what design responsibility lies with ANEL. Any Briefing
Packs
which impact systems designed by ANEl must be checked and accepted by ANEL for full compliance. If
the
sketches do not conform to design intent then this needs raising by ANEL
Item Z - The briefing packs mechanism was created to shortcut and subsequently increase the progress
of
design works, the completed Shop Drawings & Co-Ordination thereof would be officially transmitted to
ARUP whereas they would take complete ownership of the design and subsequently publish the drawing
utilizing their own title block ultimately creating an IFC drawing.
Item 3 -The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed previously.
Item 4- ANEL should write to TCA on this issue separately with substantiation for issuance to the
Engineer
for comments, We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of writing we are
still within the original contract period. Your statement pertaining to 5th March 2015 is therefore
irrelevant.
Item 5 - Our satance remains as previously communicated, however your concerns will be issued to the
employer for hid determination in the matter. Item 6 -Your comments are noted and we await
determination by the employer for his determination in
the matter (Subcontract Agreement Clause 11.4 [Deternination]}.
Item 7 - Critical equipment needs to be procured from signed off sketches as such items are not affected
by coordination. Should ANEL have any specific concerns in relation to t his point then you can issue a
letter reffering to the isolated incident for forwarding to the Engineer.

Item 8 - Noted, see point 7.
Item 9-Noted.
Item 10-Any Claim that is persued by ANEL will include a time impact analysis" showing what e~ect each
event has had on the programme. This exercise will show the effects of the briefing packs and therefore
show the reasonable time incurred. As a matter of course such impacts should be notified and as such a
determination to halt the works should be given by the employer. There is agreement with the Em Ioyer
to
pay for abortive works if the same is incurred through change brought about through Briefing Packs,
hence
significant delays by Briefing Packs should be minimal.
Item 11-See point 10.
Item 12 - Briefing Packs are changes to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict
accordance with the Sub-Contract Clauses/Conditions.
Item 13 - It is not the business of TVA or ANEL to question the internal procedures of the Client.
We would take this opportunity however to remind you of your obligation under the Subcontract to not
delay, defer or suspend any works associated with the works_ For ease of Reference Clause 20.3
(Variation
Procedure)- Sub-Clause 20.3.11;
Clause 20.3/ Sub-Clause 20.3.11
'The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of the Subcontract
Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be affected by the
Value Engineering proposal or proposed variation) whilst the Contractor considers and/or parties discuss
and endeavor to agree the Sub-Contractors Proposal'.
In this instance you are required to implement whatever mitigation measures that are necessary to
recover delays to Briefing Pack changes, be it procurement or construction activities and a like upon
which
you are culpable. Such mitigation measures that you should consider is that of air freight however the
same is by no way limited to just this. For ease of reference;
Clause 16.4.1- Recovery of Delays
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme),
a revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set
out in
Clause 16.3 {Subcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor proposes to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract
Time
for Completion. These revised methods may include increases In the working hours and/or in the
numbers of Subcontractor's Personnel · and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The
Subcontractor shall submit such revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report within seven {7)
Days of the Contractors instruction. The Contractor may, acting reasonably, if it considers the
Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate, instruct the Subcontractor to make such
amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report as it

considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such
amendments
and/or modifications.'
All costs incurred by us with regards to your failure to adhere to your contractual obligations under the
contract will be for your account and in accordance with Clause 10.3.1 of the Subcontract Agreement.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and you will carry out the necessary as a matter
of
urgency. If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact
the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
