Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Sir,
(1) MTC-CMA-0401-LTR-07700 dated 5 July 2017
(2) MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010852 dated 15 June 2017
(3) MTC-CMA-401-LTR-07745 dated 12 July 2017
(4) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-07698 dated 09 July 2017
(5) MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/010114 dated 12 February 2017
(6) MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/05552 dated 26 August 2015
The Engineer has variously written that the Contractor has breached its contractual obligation to provide
an assessment of Concurrent Delay as part of its Time Impact Analyses (TIAs). (E.g., references 1, 3, 4.)
As
previously explained, and repeated here, this is untrue. (Reference 2.) The Contractor's submissions are
contractually compliant. This letter explains, once again, why there were no Concurrent Delays with
respect to the period covered by the Heads of Agreement (HOA), referred to as EOT 1.
I. CONCURRENT DELAY IS IRRELEVANT WITH RESPECT TO EOT 1
As a threshold matter, an assessment of Concurrent Delay is not relevant to EOT 1. As we explained in
previous correspondence (references 2, 5), HOA Clause 3 explicitly provided that "[t]he Employer hereby
agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for
Completion of the Contra.ct Milestones" (emphasis added). As explained in previous correspondence
(reference 2), any suggestion that the Contractor now has to prove that there was no Concurrent Delay
would render this language meaningless. The question of entitlement to recover Costs, including
subissues
like Concurrent Delay, has already been resolved.
In letter (reference 1), the Engineer attempts to justify its interpretation of the HOA. The Engineer starts
with the proposition that Clause 3 of the HOA is "qualified by the requirement to substantiate these
costs
as set out in the HOA." Clauses 8 and 23 require the Contractor to substantiate the costs that it is
claiming. This means, for example, that the Contractor must provide proof of the costs that it has
incurred. The Contractor has satisfied this obligation through its various Cost Submissions.
However, the Engineer goes further and insists that, in addition, the Contractor must show a lack of
Concurrent Delay as part of this "substantiation". Recognising that the "demonstration that there are no
concurrent delays" is at least, in part, included within the "JV's showing its entitlement to a claim" the
Engineer notes that it is nevertheless "also a material constituent of TCA JV's evidence to support its
claim" {emphasis added). In other words, the Engineer considers that an assessment of Concurrent
Delay both speaks to the issue of entitlement and substantiation. As explained below, this clearly
strained and
untenable position fails as a sound matter of contractual interpretation.
The Program Project Controls Requirements document confirms the Contractor's position that
entitlement to Costs for the "full period of the extensions of Times for Completion" essentially resolves
the
issue of Concurrent Delay. Paragraph 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements document
(Extension of Time Programme) directly ties the assessment of Concurrent Delay in the TIA submissions
to
the overarching issue of entitlement to compensation for prolongation: Concurrent Delay would "render
the extension of time non-compensable". As the Engineer asserts, "any assessment of concurrent delay
(sic) is linked to the Time Impact Analysis." (Reference 3.) It follows that by recognising entitlement to

prolongation costs for the "full period of extensions to the Times for Completion" in HOA Clause 3, the
parties necessarily dealt with the predecessor question of Concurrent Delay, agreeing that there is no
Concurrent Delay and the full period of the extension of time is compensable. That is separate to the
question of substantiation of Costs. It is within that context, and with that understanding, that HOA
Clause
3 must be read.
The Engineer also asserts that entering into the HOA does not change the position that the Contractor is
not entitled to any additional cost arising from a Concurrent Delay as set forth in COC Clause 21.2.2
(Adjustments to the Contract Price) because the Employer has not waived that requirement in
accordance
with COC Clause 9.1.2 (No Waiver). This argument is wrong. HOA Clause 2 awards an extension of time.
The Engineer does not contest that this was a valid award, the effect of which is that the Employer
waived
liquidated damages under the original contractual Times for Completion for the period of that
extension.
The Engineer does not challenge that this waiver was effective because of Clause 9.1.2. By the same
token, HOA Clause 3 awards costs for the full period of time. Clause 3 does not run afoul of COC Clause
9.1.2 either.
The Engineer's arguments further ignore the overarching context of the HOA and, in particular, HOA
Clause 3. The HOA was intended to settle claims with HOA Clause 3 addressing the Contractor's
prolongation claims.1 It would be inconsistent with this purpose to suggest that the Parties left a key
issue unresolved, such as Concurrent Delay that could reduce (under the Engineer's current assessment)
the Contractor's entitlement to nil. The Contractor obviously would not have agreed to such a level of
uncertainty.
It is thus apparent that the Engineer is either trying to ignore the words "full period of the extensions of
Times for Completion" or trying to override what was agreed in HOA Clause 3 with HOA Clauses 8 and
23.
Neither result is permissible under UAE law. As elaborated further below, rules of contract
interpretation
in the UAE require that words in a contract "should be given effect rather than ignored"2 and that,
clauses
in contracts should be read to avoid creating conflicts between them.3 Given that the Engineer's
interpretation involves ignoring words and creates unavoidable conflicts, it is clearly wrong. II. THE
CONTRACTOR'S LEGAL INTERPRETATION OF CONCURRENT DELAY
The Contract is largely derived from the Abu Dhabi government's standard form contract, which, in turn,
is
a heavily modified 1999 FIDIC Red Book.
Under the Contract, the Contractor is entitled to an extension of time and Cost for all "critical delays"
that
are the result of Employer-delay events.4 However, there are rare circumstances where both the
Employer and Contractor-risk events may both be simultaneously responsible for the same critical
delays.
Recognising this, with respect to claims for extensions of time, COC Clause 16.5.4 provides that:
Where there is Concurrent Delay, the Contractor shall be entitled, ... to an extension of
the Time for Completion. 5
With respect to the Contractor's claims for time-related Costs, COC Clause 21.2.2 provides that:
[T]he Contractor shall not be entitled to any additional cost ... by reason of ... any cause
of delay which, whilst it would otherwise give rise to such an entitlement, is a Concurrent

Delay.6
This liability scheme, i.e., an extension of time but no Costs for Concurrent Delay, is found in England
and
represents a departure from UAE law, which apportions costs in the event the Contractor and the
Employer both cause the loss.7 (We note that this position under UAE law is not mandatory and that the
Parties, through their adoption of COC Clauses 1.1, 16.5.4 and 21.2.2, contracted for the use of a
different
approach.)
In turn, the Contract narrowly defines "Concurrent Delay" as:
[T]he occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event within
clause 16.5.1(a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects
of which are felt at the same time (emphasis added).8
This definition is taken directly from the industry definition of "true concurrent delay" as defined in
industry publications such as the SCL Delay and Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"):9
Contract, Clause 1.1 SCL Protocol
"the occurrence of two or more delay events at the "the occurrence of two or more delay events at the
same time, one an event within clause 16.5.l(a) to same time, one an Employer Risk Event, the other a
(c) [i.e., an Employer risk event], and the other not Contractor Risk Event, and the effects of which are
falling within those sub-paragraphs [i.e., a felt at the same time."
Contractor risk event], the effects of which are felt
at the same time." This is the narrowest industry definition of concurrent delay. Commentators have
described that a finding
of concurrent delay under this definition is a "rare occurrence"10 or an "exceptional factual"
situation.11 It
is thus apparent that the Parties intended to adopt a very narrow definition for this concept.
Applying the contractual definitions as supplemented by industry practice, the following applies:
(1) Both delays must impact the critical path: considering that COC Sub-Clause 16.5.1 refers to critical
delay to the Works,12 the reference in the same Sub-Clause to "the other [delay} not falling within those
sub-paragraphs" must mean events of the same. character (i.e. critical). If it were any other way, one
critical and one non-critical delay, then the latter could not be said to produce any comparable "effect"
on
the completion of the Works and, therefore, would not fit within the purpose of the Clause as described
above.
This is also the construction industry's understanding of this language. Industry understandings of terms
are given great weight under UAE law. UAE Civil Code provides "[t]hat which is known by custom is
equivalent to o stipulated condition"13 and "[t]he common usages of people shall have probative force
and
shall be abided by."14 Reliance on the industry's understanding of this language is especially probative
here because COC Clause 1.1 (Concurrent Delay) was taken almost verbatim from an industry definition
demonstrating the Parties' intent to incorporate this agreed industry position into the Contract.
According to the industry's understanding, only critical activities are relevant for purposes of concurrent
delay and, especially, true concurrent delay. For example, according to the SCL Protocol:
For concurrent delay to exist, each of the Employer Risk Event and the Contractor Risk Event must
be an effective cause of Delay to Completion (i.e. the delays must both affect the critical path)
(emphasis added).15
This makes sense. Broadly speaking, the Contra~t and law seek to assign the causes of, and therefore
liability for the consequences of, project duration overruns as between the Contractor and the
Employer.

There is no project duration overrun where there is delay to activities that are not on the critical path.
Delay to such sub-critical activities (i.e. activities off the critical path) will not result in the completion
date
being later than it otherwise would have been 16 or, in other words, project duration overrun. Delay to
sub-critical activities, therefore, cannot be said to be the cause of the Contractor's incurrence of extra
costs for prolongation. Take an example from this project. The Employer was late by 88 days in issuing
IFCs. (Reference 6.) This
delay meant that the Contractor was in turn delayed in commencing work on the shop drawings for
concrete works. These shop drawings were required to procure materials and install concrete works.
According to the original programme, the Contractor was also late by 26 days in awarding the
subcontract
to its steelworks subcontractor. (Reference 6.) However, the 88-day delay to concrete works created
float for the appointment of the steelworks subcontractor. The Contractor's appointment of the
steelworks subcontractor was well within the float created by that Employer-caused delay and
accordingly
was not critical. Therefore, the timing of the steelwork subcontractor's appointment did not cause delay
to completion. From the above, it is clear that delay events which affect activities that are not on the
critical path (i.e.
sub-critical events) so do not delay completion of Milestone 9B and, therefore, cannot be a Concurrent
Delay.17 (2) The "effects" of the delays must start and/or end at the same time: the definition of
Concurrent Delay
requires that the effects of the delay events are "felt at the same time." The word "same" means:
"Identical: not different".18 This means the timing of the effects of a delay must not be different.
From an industry perspective, at the very least, this means that both events must "result in the works
being completed later than would otherwise have been the case" .19 Practically speaking, that situation
can
occur only if the effects of the two events start or end at the same time. If one event leads to a critical
delay that is felt first in time, a second event whose effects are felt second in time cannot result in the
works being completed later than would otherwise have been the case. The delay effects of the second
event are sub-critical. The exception is where, viewed retrospectively, the effects of that second event
cease at the same time as the effects of the first event, in which case from the point when the effects of
the second event commenced, the two events are simultaneously resulting in the works being
completed
later than would otherwise have been the case. Conversely, if the effects of that second event cease
after
the effects of the first event cease, the two effects are not "felt at the same time". Instead, in that
scenario, there is no Concurrent Delay, but rather the first event is causing critical delay until its effects
cease and then the second event causes critical delay until its effects cease.
(3) The delay events must occur at "at the same time": if the effects of the delay events are felt at the
same time (as defined above), then we further assess whether the delay events occurred "at the same
time". This is a factual question.
Ill. A lACK OF CONCURRENT DELAY HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED
Time impact analyses, by their very nature, provide an assessment of Concurrent Delay.
In TIAs, delay events are introduced into the analysis in strict chronological format. For complex
projects,
such as this one, the delay events are usually introduced collectively in particular periods/windows (so,
for
example, all events which arose in April 2015, would be inserted into the then current (host) programme

for analysis). The events are inserted into the analysis in the form of fragnets, and the collective impact
of
the introduced events is modelled. ·
To determine if any of the events in the period/window is critical, the programmer determines if the
introduction of delay events for a period/window produced an incremental delay to the completion date
that was identified in the host programme before the introduction of the delay events. If the completion
date moves, then an event in that period was critical. In that case, a further analysis must be done to
determine which of the events entered for that month is (or are) critical. However, if the completion
date
does not move, then none of the events entered for that period are critical.
On the basis of this, the Contractor has determined, and certified in its TIAs, that only Employer-culpable
events have driven the critical path for EOT1. IV. CONCLUSION
For the above reasons, in the period covered by the HOA (i.e., EOT 1), there is no critical delay caused by
the Contractor, there is no Concurrent Delay and the Contractor has not failed to demonstrate that
there
are no Concurrent Delays caused by the Cor~tractor. The Contractor is therefore entitled to its
substantiated costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract
Milestones in the HOA. The Contractor asks the Engineer to accordingly issue his determination
regarding
the Contractor's claim for prolongation in the EOT 1 period.
Yours faithfully,
