Dear Sir,

Engineer's Assistant refers to Contractor's letter references 1) and 2) above and responds to the queries
raised as follows:

1.
Contractor's statement in relation to the risk of the revised Employer's Strategy for landscaping
impacting the available GSAS points is noted This matter is being discussed internally with Qatar Rail and
Contractor will be advised in due course of the resultant outcome.

2.
Engineer's Assistant notes Contractor's concerns in relation to lack of control of delivery dates.
Contractor is required to provide within monthly programme updates the milestone dates by which
design and construction of all the landscape elements are required. It should be noted that the
proposed de-scoping of the design element does not relieve the Contractor of his contractual
obligations (Volume 3, Sub-Clause 4.11 Co-operation and Coordination and Volume 4, Clause 24
Interface Management). to coordinate and liaise with Ashghal and their designers to resolve interfaces
including scheduling issues.

3.
In relation to alleged impact on entrances and pop-ups, Contractor is required to elaborate on
the precise additional risks associated with the proposed change.

4.
. Contractors comment regarding the curtailing of the Design at M2 (Joaan Station) and M3
(other Stations) is duly noted, however Contractor is required to assess and elaborate on the cost and
time impacts of this proposal only. In order for the Engineer to make a decision to proceed or otherw ise
with the proposal the requested cost and time impact assessment is necessary and Contractor is
requested to complete this task immediately.

5.
Contractor's comment in relation to the continuance of Landscape Design for all stations in
accordance with your current scope is noted and accepted as an Engineer's Instruction I Direction to
vary Contractor's scope of work has not been issued.
Dear Sir,

The Engineer has issued a direction under letter reference 1). and is in receipt of the above Contractor's
quotation submitted under letter reference 2).

Following the issue of a further direction under reference 3), the Contractor is requested to separate the
pricing for items e) & f) within the direction under letter reference 3) such that the Engineer can
consider this element as part of the determination to the direction letter reference 1).

The Contractor is required to submit the price within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
Dear Sir,
This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1 for the Contractor to submit a quotation (both as to price and
any possible delay) for the proposed Variation as desc;ribed below;

•
The landscaping design at stations to be curtailed at completion of M3 design stage (including
SONO) with the exception of Joann station yvhich is tp be curtailed at M2 design stage (including SONO).
The Contractor shall submit the quotation within 14 days of this direction.

The landscaping design scope is curtailed at the pbove stage to avoid overlap with design works to be
carried
I
out by others.
Yours faithfully,
