Subject:CONVID-19 (Coronavirus) – Further UAE Authorities’ Guidelines
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letter ref: (1) that served to notify you about the developing situation in respect of the
exceptional epidemic levels of Coronavirus CONVID-19.
The circumstances with CONVD19 are rapidly developing on a daily basis and for that reason, the UAE
Authorities are continuously announcing and declaring measures and guidelines which must be taken in
place by the public to cope with the pandemic.
Some of the latest guidelines that have been announced by the UAE Authorities on 23 March 2020
[Monday 2:42 AM] have been enclosed hereto for your reference, attention and further guidelines.
Specifically, the Emirates New Agency Guidelines inter alia “… has called upon the public to stay home
unless it is absolutely necessary to get essential supplies, such as food and medicine, or perform
essential jobs…”. The announcement amongst other things continues by stating that “… the Ministry of
Interior and the National Emergency and Crisis and Disasters Management Authority urged UAE citizens,
residents, visitors and all those living in the nation, to comply with the instructions and guidelines issued
by competent health and security authorities, primarily limiting social contacts and avoiding crowded
places to ensure their safety and wellbeing”. Involve
Considering the vast number of people i.e. labour, staff, subcontractors, etc. actively engaged in the
project, we feel that it is incumbent upon us to seek your further and immediate guidance to ensure
that we are following best practice and have not missed any opportunity to minimise the risk to the
labour force, all staff working on this Project, and to the general population of the UAE.
In light of the prevailing situation in the UAE, we kindly request you to advise and/or issue us an
instruction on the way forward taking into consideration the measures announced by the UAE
Authorities as explained above and attached hereto and more significantly the overall impact that these
measures are likely to have to the completion of the Project.
Meanwhile, we reiterate that we remain fully committed to you / ADAC, the Project and to completing
our obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality.
Yours faithfully,
