
Dear Sir,

We refer to the Engineer's Assistant's response to M006-GDB-ARC-RFl -00052 - Lifts at Entrances, which
states:

"In accordance with ER Vol.6 Section 11.4.5.23.1, Minimum 2 no.of lifts are acquired per station
entrance for each station to satisfy the Employer's Requirements for access for all the station during
operation hours and 24\7 access for all pedestrian underpass."

Please note that the above-mentioned clause does not exist; however,we believe that the Engineer's
Assistant is referring to ER Volume 6, 11.4.6.23.a) which states "The design will provide for heavy duty
transit lifts for 24-hour a day use in transportation terminals..."

Additionally, ER Volume 6, 11.4.4.4.4.a) states "...Each entrance shall optimally have at least one
escalator, lift and stair..."

ABM1 shows a single lift at entrances, and we have been directed by Qatar Railto follow ABM1 at the
Design Escalation Meeting of 28/01/15.

Our assumption is that only a single lift is needed at each entrance in order to comply with the above
requirements. If that single lift is non-operational (for example, during lift failure), then PRMs,
(passengers with reduced mobility), may still enter/ex it the system by using the lift at another
alternative entrance, and if required, the subway is still accessible from within the station.

Lift maintenance can be outside operational hours, noting that operational hours of the stations are not
24 hours.

If the subway is being used solely for crossing the street, then in the event that the station only has two
entrances and one of the lifts is non-operational, PRMs still have the possibility of crossing the road at
grade, (and in fact that many PRMs not using the metro would prefer to do this based upon travel time
waiting for lifts down and back up again). Note that the term PRM encompasses many disabilities

including visual or aural impairment, elderly, those on crutches, etc. and not all are wheelchair users,
nor will all prefer to use lifts.

Finally, our view is that the 24 hour operation mentioned above relates to the lift motor specification,
rather than lift operating 24 hours per day.

You are kindly requested to issue the necessary instruction for the provision of two lifts per station
entrance for each station.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
