
Dear Sir,

Following recent discussions it has come to our attention that the Contract is open to different
interpretations as to the Contractor's obligations in issuing Notices to the Engineer when the Contractor
is in receipt of an Engineer's Instruction ("El") which the Contractor believes constitutes a Variation
under General Condition ("GC") 13 ("Variations and Adjustments").

One interpretation is that the Contract requires the Contractor to issue Notice(s) and provide further
particulars, under each and all of the following General Conditions of Contract:

1.
A Notice (hereinafter referred to as the "Variation Notice") must be provided by the Contractor
within 14 days of receipt of the El, pursuant to GC 3.3.3, if the Contractor believes the El constitutes a
Variation or, if the El may create an Entitlement to the Contractor ("Entitlement" is defined under GC
1.1.6.6 as being, inter alia, a right to an extension of time under GC 8.4 and a right to any adjustment to
the Contract Price). The Contractor is then obliged, pursuant to GC 3.3.4, to provide the Engineer with
details of any anticipated extension of the Time for Completion and/or a proposed adjustment of the
Contract Price within 28 days from the aforementioned Variation Notice.

2.
Should the Variation Notice involve a considered entitlement to an extension of time, the
Contractor is also compelled to provide a Notice (hereinafter referred to as the "Extension of Time
Notice") of such considered entitlement to the Engineer, pursuant to GC 8.4.2. The Extension of Time
Notice must be provided within 14 days of when the Contractor knew or should have known of the facts
or basis of such entitlement. The Contractor is then obliged, pursuant to GC 8.4.4, to provide to the
Engineer, within 28 days of the Extension of Time Notice, a Time Impact Analysis for any alleged
adjustment of the Time for Completion.

ALYSJ
joint venture

3.
Furthermore, pursuant to GC 20.1.2, should the Contractor consider itself to be entitled to any
extension of the Time for Completion and/or any additional payment under any other General
Condition, the Contractor is also required to give a Notice to the Engineer (hereinafter referred to as the
"Claim Notice") describing the event or circumstance giving rise to the claim. The Contractor is then
obliged, pursuant to GC 20 .1.6, to provide the Engineer within 28 days of the Claim Notice, its detailed
claim supporting the basis of the claim and of the extension of time and/or additional payment claimed.
The aforementioned requirements of GC
20.1 are reinforced by GC 20.1.11 which states that the requirements of GC 20.1 are in addition to those
of any other General Condition " which may apply to a claim."

Another interpretation is that the Contract only requires the Contractor to issue a Variation Notice (and
further particulars within 28 days of the Notice) and, if relevant, an Extension of Time Notice (and a
Time Impact Analysis within 28 days of the Notice). In other words, a Claim Notice is not be required to
be issued within 14 days of the Contractor's receipt of the El, i.e.a Claim Notice is not be required to be
issued at the same time as the Variation Notice and the Extension of Time Notices are issued . Such a

Claim Notice would only be required following the Contractor's submission of the further particulars
pursuant to GC 3.3.4 and the Time Impact Analysis pursuant to GC 8.4.4 (if relevant) and the Engineer's
subsequent disagreement that the El is a Variation or the Engineer's disagreement of the Contractor's
entitlement to and/or the applied quantum of an extension to the Time for Completion and/or
adjustment to the Contract Price due to the alleged Variation.

It is important that there is clarity in the communication on such matters and on reflection the
Contractor considers this is more efficiently achieved by the latter. The Contractor would therefore like
to propose to the Employer/Engineer that the latter interpretation is to be employed for any Els that are
to be issued in the future. The Contractor therefore respectfully requests the Employer's written
agreement to the employment of the latter interpretation of the Contract reducing unnecessary
contractual correspondence for an El that is believed to be a Variation by the Contractor.

Yours faithfully,
