Subject Submission of Contractor's Claims (HoA) Update 2

Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the alleged second
update of the Contractor's Claims pursuant to the Heads of Agreement.
Although the expected requirements regarding the Contractor's submissions have been previously
responded to by the Engineer, for the sake of clarity it is necessary, due to the numerous inaccuracies
contained in your letter, the Engineer to provide a further response:
The Contractor asserts that the Claim submissions pertaining to the Subcontractors have not been
assessed by the Engineer and further alleges that the required substantiation has been provided.
Reference is made by the Contractor to correspondence MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/008519 dated 3 August
2016 without mentioning the Engineer's response to this letter (ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-05962
dated 23 August 2016).
The Engineer in the above referenced correspondence recorded again the shortcomings of the
Contractor's submissions and detailed the issues which need to be addressed by the Contractor in order
to evidence any entitlement which may exist for additional payment.
The Contractor conveniently lists the correspondence which has been issued regarding the
Subcontractor's "Prolongation and Acceleration" costs without referring to the numerous letters issued
by the Engineer detailing all the requirements which need to be complied with in accordance with the
Contract.
The Engineer reiterates that the Contractor is in breach of his contractual obligations as to date the
Contractor has failed to undertake and provide a fully detailed auditable evaluation of the
Subcontractor's Claims. The assertion that "further detailed records of Subcontractors Prolongation and
Disruption Costs are available with the Subcontractors themselves for your review and audit" is rejected.
It is not the Engineer's responsibility to audit your Subcontractors. On the contrary, it is the Contractor
who is required to audit, evaluate and determine the Subcontractors claims and provide the required
particulars to the Engineer that demonstrate entitlement under the Contract. For the record, the
Engineer has provided details of the required level of substantiation vide the
following correspondence: The Engineer reiterates that the Contractor has failed to reasonably
substantiate the claimed amounts.
According to Clause 27.1.7 of the Conditions of Contract, unless and until the particulars supplied are
sufficient to substantiate the whole of any particular claim, the Contractor shall only be entitled to
payment for such part of the claim as it has been able to substantiate to the standard required by the
Engineer and the Employer.
Subject: Breach of Conditions of Contract
Contractor's Claims pursuant to HOA
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference (6) above regarding the breach of Contract arising from your failure to
make the necessary determinations thus preventing any further payments of Costs as set out in the
Heads
of Agreement (HOA).
We note that you neglected to address the notice of breach in respect of your failure to undertake your
duties, letter ref. (5) above received by you 12 calendar days prior.
Your reply does not address any of the substantive matters in connection with the Contractor's
entitlement to a determination pursuant to the Contract, and the agreed extension of Time for
Completion (EOT) as set out in the HOA.
This letter demonstrates that you have relied on your own breach as 'justification' to deny the
Contractor
a rightful entitlement to the recovery of Costs arising from undisputed Employer caused delays.

Your remarks, characterizing the above as a problem of "cash flow" is erroneous, misleading and
damaging to the Employer's interest. Non-payment is grounds for a legitimate right of the Contractor to
suspend the Works.
Our reply is given against the same headers and sections of your letter reference (6) above.
Relevant Provisions of the HOA
To quote form your letter, with "reference to selective provisions of the HOA" we assert that Clause 2
and 3
are the most relevant in respect of the settlement of the Contractor's claim. These are re-cited here
below with emphasis added:
"2. The Employer hereby awards extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in
Schedule 16 [Milestones) to the 'Extended Date's' stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto." The HOA records an
"agreement" to reimburse the Contractor's Costs, as follows:
"3. The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions to
the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in Schedule 16 [Milestones] to the 'Extended
Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto,"
... Subject to the proviso and procedure that the final amount of:
" ... such Costs to be substantiated as set out in these Heads of Agreement."
1. Clause 5 of the HOA sets out that "the parties will negotiate and enter in
to Amendment Agreement No.
3 to the Construction Contract (the "Amendment Agreement No. 3") ... ". Unfortunately, it was not
possible for either Party to reach an agreement on the precise terms of the amendments. We do not
agree with the characterization of the inability to negotiate and reach mutually acceptable terms as
refusal on our part.
In this regard, we do not accept that the absence of an amendment as ground to nullify the HOA or
the intended agreements and/or determinations recorded therein.
More importantly it does not abolish or do away with the rights and obligations under the Contract
with respect to Contractor's claims, as your assertion "Accordingly, no money is payable to you" seem
to suggest.
However, this appears to be the main thrust of your letter; i.e. to create a pretext to renege on
determinations and the payment certifications, which in the absence of a Contract amendment, are
deemed to be issued by you pursuant to, and in accordance with the requirements of the Contract.
If you (or the Employer) contend that the intents of the HOA are no longer valid, such contentions do
not in any way waive or diminish the Engineer's responsibility to issue determinations on all the
Contractor's claims.
2. The relevant and fundamental fact of the HOA is that it establishes an Employer's agreement to a
settlement of Contractor claims in relation to Employer delay events outlined in the HOA up to and
including the period prior to 5 March 2015.
Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of the HOA (which are procedural in nature), the above
quoted parts constitute the essence of the "agreement", namely the principles and the scope of
entitlement.
It is abundantly clear from the HOA document that monies were in fact:
a) payable pursuant to:
i. the Engineer's " preliminary assessment" as recorded in HOA clause 9 which sets out, :
"For the avoidance of doubt, the Engineer's preliminary assessment for Payments 1 and 3 are the
minimum payments the Contractor shall receive in settlement of the respective Contractor's
Claims", and
ii. the provisions of CoC c. 27.1.7 which obligate the Engineer to provide for:
"Each interim payment shall include amounts for any claims that have been reasonably

substantiated as due under the relevant provision of the Contract. Unless and until particulars
supplied are sufficient to substantiate the whole of any particular claim, the Contractor shall only
be entitled to payment for such part of the claim as it has been able to substantiate to the
standard required by the Engineer or the Employer." b) paid pursuant to the Interim Payment
Certificates cited in letter reference (5) above, presumably
certified and attested by the same Engineer in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 11
(Payment Terms) clause 5.4 which sets out (emphasis added):
"When agreeing or determining the amount of the interim payment to which the Contractor is
entitled and issuing the Interim Payment Certificate ... "
Therefore, having issued such interim payment certificates, you are deemed as having agreed or
determined such amounts in accordance with the Payment Terms.
c) The only remaining amount requiring the Engineer's assessment and agreement was HOA
payment no. 2 which you and the Employer agreed to pay in part on account. This is described in
HOA c. 10 as follows:
"Payment 2 or a part thereof (as applicable) shall be immediately repayable if and to the extent the
remaining balance of the Contractor's Claims accepted by the Employer (if any), in accordance with
the process outlined below, total less than such payment. The Employer shall be entitled to set-off
any amount of Payment 2 that becomes repayable against any sum that is or may become due to
Contractor under the Construction Contract, including (without limitation) interim payments."
This is further clarified under HOA "Payment of Claims" c. 24 as follows:
"If and to the extent the Engineer approves amounts for Contractor's Claims in excess of Payments 1
and 3, any sum thereby due shall be paid by the Employer in accordance with Clauses 27.1.7 and
27.1.8{b) less Payment 2."
Our position remains that notwithstanding the inability to reach mutually acceptable concessions
regarding the terms of the HOA Contract Amendment, it does not relieve the Employer or the
Engineer from their original obligations under the Contract, nor does it give the Engineer a right to
waive the Contractor's right and entitlements.
Therefore, notwithstanding the clear language of HOA clauses 2, 3 and 4, you remain required to
undertake your duties and obligations as set out in Conditions of Contract clauses 21.2 (Adjustments
to the Contract Price), 27.1.6, 27.1.7, 27.1.8 (Contractor's Claims) and 27.2.1 (Time Impact Analysis),
5.4 (Interim Payments) under Schedule 11 {Payment Terms), 11.5 {Time/Cost Record) and most
importantly 11.4.1 {Determinations).
You are mandatorily obliged to authorize interim payments for the parts of the Contractor's claims
which are substantiated. You are also obliged to record the agreements between the Parties
regardless of their shape and form, barring which you are obliged according to CoC c. 11.4.1. to make
your own assessment and "a fair determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due
regard of all relevant circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the
Parties as set out in the Contract."
The irrefutable fact of the matter is that you have persistently failed to undertake such Contract
mandated duties.
3. For the record, the payments provided pursuant to the HOA were undertaken by the Employer to
overcome breaches originally arising from your continued failure to assess, agree and/or determine
Contractor's claims during the course of the Works. This culminated in the Employer's initiative to
wrap up all claims, events, and occurrences (including the Engineer's breaches) within the scope of the
HOA.
Although we appreciate being paid amounts legitimately due to the Contractor, we reject the
allegation that such payments were provided as "financial assistance". Such payments were owed to the
Contractor due the "unprecedented nature and scale" of the

Employer changes which have not ceased despite the agreements set out in the HOA.
In the absence of a signed Amendment No. 3 you may seek to avoid complying with clause 23.c of the
HOA, which sets out that the "Engineer will make its preliminary determination with detailed comments
within 28 Days of receipt of the Contractor's final particulars for each part of the Contractor's Claims;"
You should be aware that CoC c. 27.1.6 also requires the Engineer's action "within twenty-eight (28)
Days". Therefore, notwithstanding such pretext, your obligations remain the same. In which case,
your remarks regarding the valuations being made in "good faith" does not imply any extraordinary or
unwarranted action on the part of the Engineer.
Under Applicable Law, good faith is an express covenant that the parties to the Contract will deal with
each other honestly, fairly and in good faith so as not to adversely affect the right of the other Party to
receive the benefits of the Contract.
Your statement that the Contractor's "continuing failure to progress the Works in accordance with your
contractual obligations as a basis to extract further financial assistance from the Employer. Such actions
have no contractual basis and the Engineer rejects any attempt by you, to hold the Employer
responsible
for your failures or the failures of your subcontractors" is wholly erroneous and adversely affects the
interests of the Employer.
Such statement on your part is not in keeping with each Party's obligation to act in in good faith.
Consequently we request your written retraction of this statement and all similar ones.
In response to you statement that there is "no contractual basis" for the payment of HOA claims to the
Contractor we refer you to the provisions of the Contract cited in section 2 above and request that
you cease and desist from making such absurd assertions.
We also request that stop bringing in unrelated events and that you only refer to the events and
maters within the scope of the HOA.
You are reminded of the mandatory obligations under CoC c. 11.4.1 which require that you: "shall
make a fair determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the
Contract."
The fact remains that to date you have failed to make a timely and fair determination of our claims. This
failure to administer and undertake your duties as expressly prescribed is a violation of the Conditions of
Contract and is not in keeping with good faith obligations under the Contract and in Applicable Law.
This substantive breach of the Conditions of Contract gives us grave concern as it adversely affects our
ability to deliver the Works in a timely and cost efficient manner.
Contractor's "purported" Submissions
You ought to be aware that 'payment' is principally the obligation of the Employer and the right of the
Contractor, not the other way around. Your allegations regarding "prejudice to the Employer's ... rights
... in
relation to your entitlement to be paid" is fundamentally flawed; particularly when such payments have
been unequivocally agreed, an Engineer's interim payment certificate issued and payments for same
received! By way of examples we quote from several of your letters:
a) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-04498 dated 25 October 2015:
"Since commencing the process in March 2015, of resolving the Contractor's Claim encompassed within
the HOA we are obligated to record at the time of writing, that the Contractor has not provided the
Engineer with sufficient 'substantiation' that would enable the Engineer to comply with Clause 23 (d) of
the HOA, which states; "All Contractor's Claims to be resolved by the Parties within six months of the
effective date of the Amendment Agreement No. 3"
b) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-04137 dated 11 August 2015:
"Clearly if such information is not supplied, this will inevitably prejudice the Engineer's opportunity to

investigate and take appropriate action in accordance with the timescales established within the Heads
of Agreement dated OS March 2015, with associated consequences to the Contractor."
c) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-04394 dated 30 Sep 2015
"Notwithstanding that you have failed to provide the Engineer with further substantiation as requested
above, you will be aware that it is not possible to perform an in depth analysis without the aid of the
native files. "
This entire section rests on falsehoods, which are not in keeping with the relevant facts and appear to
be a
pretext to avoid undertaking your own obligations. The facts bear out that the Engineer has frustrated
the
process to determine by consistently failing to undertake those specific Engineer's duties.
By your own admission, you purport that the lack of adequate and necessary substantiation is the cause
preventing the Engineer from making the determination required pursuant to the HOA and Contract.
For the avoidance of doubt the final particulars were provided in the Contractor letters listed here
above.
Notwithstanding the above pretexts, you remain in breach of your obligations under the Contract since
you are still required to make determination by taking "account of the extent (if any) to which the failure
has prevented or prejudiced proper investigation of the claim" when assessing and determining "any
extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and/or adjustment to the
Contract
Price" as set out in Conditions of Contract clause 27.1.9. Recovery of Delays and application of Delay
Damages
We reject as groundless your assertions that ~ delays are due to Contractor's "continued failure to
progress the works" without consideration of the causes, responsibilities and consequences of the
relevant
delays.
The HOA establishes agreement regarding delays for a specific scope and time period. The delays
outside
the scope of the HOA are not relevant to the Engineer's obligations to agree or determine the costs
claims
pursuant to the HOA delay events and the Employer agreed EOT.
We acknowledge that further Employer delays have occurred beyond the events with the HOA.
However,
this is not a valid reason or justification for the failures on your part to make the necessary
determinations
in respect of the additional Cost claims for the periods set out in the HOA.
For such further Employer responsibility delays we refer you to the subsequent Contractor claims
submitted to you as listed here below.
You ought to undertake your duties in earnest with respect to the outstanding claims according with
provisions of c. 27 for Claims, Disputes and Arbitration: It is worth noting that you have failed to take
any proactive and independent steps as required under the
Contract to assess, agree and/or determine any of the above.
The above will be addressed separately.
Concurrent Delay
The agreement between the Parties as on 5 March 2015 was a commercial decision reached in part as a
result of the failure of the Engineer to properly assess and determine the Contractor's entitlement to an
EOT in a professional and timely manner. As recorded above ''The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse
the

Contractor's Costs for the full period of_ extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract
Milestones in
Schedule 16 [Milestones] to the 'Extended Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto' and ' ... such Costs to
be
substantiated as set out in these Heads of Agreement."
It is clear that the Parties did not envisage any need to disprove any future claims of the Engineer with
regards any perceived Contractor Concurrent Delay. Indeed the Engineer himself did not mention such
need in his assessment of the Contractor's entitlement to an EOT. However, if the Engineer maintains its
demands for the Contractor to disprove any and all alleged
Contractor's Concurrent Delays then the HOA provisions regarding a waiver of the Contractor's rights to
claim for time and/or cost (prior to the date of the HOA) will need to be reconsidered as any such
Employer delay events may have had a later impact on other Works which may, prima facie, appear to
be
a Contractor delay whereas in reality they are the consequence of an earlier Employer delay event.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has, prior to the agreement of the Parties, issued several
consolidated claims which include a detailed Time Impact Analysis (TIA) for each Employer delay event.
The result of these consolidated claims, and the resultant TIA's, support the Contractor's claim for an
EOT
far beyond that agreed under the HOA.
As you are no doubt aware the Conditions of Contract call for the Contractor to support all claims for an
EOT by way of a TIA. Furthermore a TIA is based on the effect of delay events on the Contractor's
intentions for the future conduct of work in the light of progress actually achieved at the time of the
delay event and can also be used to assist in resolving more complex delay scenarios including
concurrent delays, acceleration and disruption.
The Engineer is reminded that the definition of Concurrent Delay under the Conditions of Contract is
"Concurrent Delay means the occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event
within
clause 16.5.1{a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects of which are
felt at
the same time". It is therefore possible to establish the existence or otherwise of any apparent
Contractor
Concurrent Delay simply by analysing the data included within the TIA's submitted by the Contractor in
support of his claims for an EOT and recovery of resultant Costs. It can be seen that that there is no
Contractor Concurrent Delay.
Your reference to clauses 16.5.1 (a) to (c) simply provides support to the Contractor's right to claim to an
extension of the Time for Completion. The invocation of these clauses fully support the Contractors
entitlement, but for the breaches by you of the Engineer's obligations under clause 27.1 (Contractor's
Claims) and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis).
It is evident that, contrary to the opinion of the Engineer, such reference is in support of the
Contractor's
entitlements and points to an incorrect interpretation of the Contract in respect of the Contractor's
entitlements to the extension of the Time for Completion.
Similarly, clause 21.2.1 provides the Contractor the entitlement to payment. This clause states that the
Contractor "shall be entitled subject to clause 27.1 (Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which
shall be added to the Contract Price." Again it is evident that your referenced clause supports the
Contractor's
entitlement to claim.

Your reference to paragraph 1.3.7 of the Programme Project Control Requirements (PPCR) Specification
is
unclear. This document governs the planning and control procedures for any "Extension of Time
Programme". The PRCR states that "the Contractor must demonstrate that there are no concurrent
delays ...
which would render the extension of time non-compensable". The method of delay analysis by which
the
Contractor is to demonstrate that no such Contractor's Concurrent Delays exist is, as recorded under the
Conditions of Contract, by way of a TIA. The Contractor again records that he has fully discharged this
obligation under the Contract.
The Engineer's statement recording "if the contractor considers itself to be entitled to an extension of
the
Time for completion" shows a fundamental failure in his ability to understand the Contract and the
agreement between the Parties. The Contractor again reminds the Engineer that an EOT has already
been
awarded. Additionally the matter of EOT and Concurrent Delay is expressly dealt with under CoC clause
16.5.4 which records 11Where there is a Concurrent Delay, the Contractor shall be entitled, subject to
this clause 16.5 and clauses 27.1 (Contractor's Claims) and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis), to an extension
of the
Time for Completion".
Your assertion that the Contractor is "not entitled to compensation for prolongation, under the HOA or
for any notified events post the HOA" is wholly erroneous and without foundation. It is the responsibility
of the Engineer to determine the Contractor's claims to recover its Costs and you cannot abrogate this
obligation under the Contract.
The Contractor again records that the TIA's demonstrate a valid chain of critical activities impacted by
Employer delay events, absent of any Contractor Concurrent Delay being felt at the same time. This is
self-evident from the relevant critical path activities shown in the TIA and the Contractor has
demonstrated the effect and consequences of the Employer delay events and/or periods of delay as
required under the provisions of the Contract.
Your current approach to the administration of this Contract is not consistent with the requirements
under the Contract or the intentions set out in the HOA. Your actions and departures have caused
breaches by the Employer under the Contract. These appear intended to frustrate the Contractor and
deny the Contractor recovery of legitimate Costs pursuant to legitimate claims. As such your
correspondence is a not a true reflection of the current status of the Contractor claims settled pursuant
to
the HOA.
Yours faithfully,
