
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer’s Assistant’s letters references 1) and 3) in relation to the
outstanding ICD’s for TVS steel plenums. The Engineer’s Assistant has requested closure of the ICD’s in
relation to the TVS steel plenums whilst highlighting the urgency surrounding the design, supply and
subsequent installation of the associated steel frame supports. For the avoidance of doubt, it is noted
that the provision of the steel frame supports along the ceiling of the TPS rooms has been necessitated
due to the additional structural loads imposed by the Systems Contractor on account of its Energy
System cable tray routings.

The Contractor further refers to the letter reference 2) whereby the Systems Contractor has refused to
sign off the draft ICD reference M006-GDB-SSA-ICD-00639 unless the Contractor has expressly agreed to
finalize the design of the said steel supports and proceed with the supply and installation of same at its
own cost. At this point, the Contractor wishes to clarify to the Engineer’s Assistant that the requirement
for additional steel frame supports is not limited to the steel TVS plenums but the same principle applies
to the concrete TVS plenums, and potentially to the concrete slabs above the TPS rooms as well (which
do not form part of the plenums). This is an additional requirement which is therefore irrelevant to the
design of the TVS plenums but to the load bearing capacity of the ceilings as a whole.

Pursuant to the Employer’s Requirements (ER) Vol. 6 Clause 1.4.3.4 the minimum distributed and
concentrated load bearing capacity shall be 1 kN/m2 for ceiling and services in equipment rooms.

The Systems Contractor had previously raised a number of issues regarding the Contractor’s TVS plenum
design under letter reference 6) which the Contractor has addressed vide letter reference 5) and the
report attached thereto. It was only recently that the Systems Contractor has informed the Contractor
via email enclosed in attachment 2) to this letter of the technical details in relation to the proposed
routing of the Energy services within the TPS rooms. As a matter of fact, those routings result in an
increase to the required load bearing capacity of the respective ceilings from 1 to a maximum value
exceeding 2 kN/m2 which at this point can only be accommodated by way of a structural steel frame
support system. Had the Contractor been aware of those requirements in good time it could have made
the respective allowance within its structural design.

In an attempt to expedite the issue the Contractor has progressed in good faith with a preliminary
design of the steel frame supports as per attachment 1) to this letter. Upon consideration of the
foregoing, the Contractor considers that it has clearly demonstrated to the Engineer’s Assistant that it
has fully complied with its interface obligations under the Contract and that the additional steel frame
support requirement has been instigated by the late design development on the part of the Systems
Contractor.

In the event therefore that the Employer wishes the Contractor to undertake the design, supply and
installation of the steel support frames, the Engineer’s Assistant is kindly requested to issue an
Instruction pursuant to Clause 13.1.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract for the same. In the meantime, and in

order to avoid any unnecessary impact to the project, the Contractor shall continue with its interfacing
obligations under the Contract with full and due consideration of this additional requirement.

Yours faithfully,
