Subject:

Change Management Hourly Rates Breakdown & Substantiation

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter referenced (5) and in continuation to our letters referenced (3) and (4) above,
please note that the Engineer’s Instruction 323 (EI) given via letter referenced (2) states that the
resources allocated for the Change Management is for the “completion of all design items”, meaning
that, they are not limited to the Briefing Pack meetings, but up until the delivery of shop drawings
accordingly.
In view of the above, and your request as per your letter reference (5), in which you are requesting our
advice on the process to submit the report for the works done at your plant and offices related to the
foregoing, we hereby request you to submit (in the required format) all timesheets for the resources
used in regards to the Briefing Pack No 39 meetings, in order for us to review and forward the same to
the Engineer for its review.
Please note that the timesheets should only include the resources related to the EI 323 and
subsequently to the Contractor’s Instruction(s). Any (if any), associated cost arising as a result of this EI
323 shall be dealt with separately and shall be submitted independently.
To conclude, once you submit the timesheets as stated above for our review, signature and approval
they will then be forwarded to the Engineer for review. Please be informed, that all timesheet are
subject to Engineer’s approval. Moreover, please note that, the timesheets will be forwarded back to
you after the Engineer’s review and approval in order for you to submit a RFVO taking in consideration
the Engineer’s comments (if any).
We notify you that we reserve our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and inform you that we shall
not be responsible for any delays or disruptions, or any cost it may incur arising out of or in connection
with the works mentioned herein.
This is for your kind information and further action.
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1004 - Delays to Airport Operation Systems Workstations Installation due to
Furniture layout Design Availability (Likely Delay Notice No. Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim
Dear Sir
On 8 January 2018, the Contractor submitted Likely Delay Notice ('LON'} No. 2727 (ref: 1) in
consideration that the outstanding furniture layout design for the AOS Workstations has the potential to
adversely affect or delay the execution of the Works.
In relation thereto, the Contractor records that to date, and despite the issuance of LON No. 2727, the
design information still remains outstanding. Annex A hereto provides details of the activities affected
by the absence of the design information in accordance with Baseline Programme Rev. 10.4. Annex A

clearly demonstrates that the remaining durations to complete the installation and set-up activities
identified therein will soon be insufficient to complete the works. Therefore, Engineer's continued
failure to provide the furniture layout design information is continuing to prevent the Contractor from
coordinating and finalising the approval of typical installation drawing(s). Absent any action on the
Engineer's I Employer's Design Consultant's part, this will impact upon cable routing works, furniture
installation and site readiness, plus associated works, which will impact upon the Contractor's ability to
achieve inter alia Milestones MS9A.S, MS9A.6, and Milestones MS09B and MS10. The Contractor
contends that this constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's
Personnel.
Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i} An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii} An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a}, (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
