Subject TCA-JV HSE Incentive & Motivation Scheme - Failure to Respond
Dear Sir,
The Engineer writes further to the ongoing communications with the Contractor with regards to the
inaction of the Contractor to effectively implement the TCA-JV HSE Incentive & Motivation Scheme
(PP721-ISM-1093) dated May 30, 2013. Although the Contractor has previously held regularly
scheduled Recognition and Reward ceremonies, these events have not been maintained.
The Engineer reiterates that the Recognition and Reward programs are not only positively associated
with improved performance and injury prevention but they are also required under the Contractor's
Site Specific Safety Plan (SSSP), as per the MTB contractual obligations as detailed in Division 1
Specification.
The Contractor is required to respond to this letter with its clear plan of action to gain the necessary
improvements and required compliance within seven (7) days upon receipt of this letter.
We look forward to your active engagement to reinvigorate the TCA-JV HSE Incentive & Motivation
Scheme.
Subject Recent Fire related Incidents
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the recent fire related incidents that have been sustained in areas
associated with the TCAJV.
The Contractor has sustained ten fire related events in the month of August 2019. Six of these fires
have been reported by the Contractor as likely to have been caused on purpose without any evidence
as to the motive for these potential malicious attempts to cause damage and disruption.
A meeting with the TCAJV Senior Management was conducted on 1 September 2019 to discuss these
concerns.
As the Project moves closer to overall completion, it is essential that the TCAJV place sufficient
measures to avoid any damages and/or disruption to the MTC facilities and temporary structures.
It is also paramount that fire and life safety standards are maintained 24/7 throughout the final stages
of the project leading to the successful and timely project delivery.
With immediate effect the Contractor is required to implement all necessary prevention and
mitigation measures to avoid any further fires and/or damage to the MTC facilities. This should include

better surveillance measures as well as additional supervisory responsibilities.
The Contractor is required to respond within 3 days from the date of receipt of this letter detailing the
additional measures, as far as reasonably practicable, to deter and avoid any further fire and damage
related incidents. Any damages sustained could result in the Contractor being liable for the associated
costs and the resulting impacts.
Subject: Overall completion schedule as impacted by subsidence and other notified issues
Dear Sirs,
As requested, and following the release to us of the majority of the Engineer's Instructions in respect
of the subsidence works we confirm having issued to you on 8 September 2019 the following
documents:
1. The overall completion schedule .showing the completion of initial cause & effect testing to
CXA Stage 8 by 31 October 2019 and indicating Substantial Completion by 15 September 2020;
2. The associated Programme Narrative that clarifies the status of the Works as at the original
Completion date of 31 October 2019;
3. Integrated Level 1 Programme;
4. A schedule showing room completions;
5. 2 number Schedules showing the completion of FOBs and isolators;
6. A layout and schedule showing PPE Free and transfer of responsibility dates.
We would state that in compiling these documents it has had to be assumed that the supplementary
agreement and SAA9, both as recently submitted, will be put into effect in time to allow us to
successfully implement this Completion process.
Accepting of course this is a matter for the Parties to resolve we are sure you will understand that
whilst we are currently proceeding on this basis, having committed cash to subsidence and associated
additional works that would otherwise be required to complete the original scope of Works, unless
and until the project cash position is resolved, we will not be able to continue in this manner beyond
the next few weeks.
Please let us have your comments on the documents submitted in this context, as a matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
