Subject: Failure to Achieve Milestone 68
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Principals' Meeting dated 11 September 2019, where TCAJV stated
that MS6B was achieved (see attached Slide #22 of the Contractor's presentation).
The Engineer reiterates that in order for Milestone MS6B to be completed in accordance with the
Contract, the Contractor must complete Stage 3 of the Room Completion phases as well as the Testing
and Commissioning of the services providing for and passing through the retail spaces. The Milestone
definition states 'The milestone will be considered complete when all areas are inspected and accepted
by the Engineer in order to allow undisturbed and uninterrupted access for build-out/fit-out by other
Contractors'.
Given that neither Stage 3 nor the Testing and Commissioning are completed (Testing and
Commissioning is forecasted to be completed by 31 October 2019 as per the Contractor's target
Program presented in the same meeting presentation in Slide #11), the status of the Milestone 6B
remains unachieved.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights pursuant to Clause 10.3 and Clause 16.6 of the Conditions of
Contract to impose delay damages for the Contractor's failure to achieve the Milestone within the
Contractual timeframe.
Subject:Delay Notification – Slow Progress – Central Processor AHUs TAB Works
Dear Sir,

We refer to your letter (1) advising us of purported slow progress to the Central Processor AHU’s TAB
Works.
We disagree with the content of your letter and would mention that AHU’s TAB and Commissioning
works are technically not required for Cause and Effect testing. Respective units and items installation
(mechanical and electrical) and energization are sufficient to proceed with the Cause and Effect testing.
However, through proactive joint dialogue with you at site, we have worked together to progress the
AHU works, and in certain instances, proceeded with the Cause and Effect testing, ahead of
Commissioning.
We refer you to our letter (2). Whereas you have measured our progress against Rev. 11.2 Programme
update for March 2019, you are aware that we have been working to the Completion Programme.
While we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing our obligations within the
shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, in view of the matters outlined
above, we refute any allegations of slow progress to the AHU TAB works. We trust this is clear
Yours faithfully,
