Subject:

Notice to Correct: Delay Notice DCM-16 SS Grille (MEP Submittal)

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the numerous email correspondences
regarding your delay in the procurement of DCM-16 SS Grille materials, this is to put on record and
notify you of your failure to deliver the mentioned materials. Despite our previous numerous reminders
you continue to fail to deliver the materials, which is completely unacceptable and will no longer be
entertained.
Furthermore, we regret to notice your statement in your email correspondence hereby attached that
“…we are waiting for the money to be release from TCAJV to proceed further.” This statement is totally
disregarded and refuted due to the fact that we have been supporting you by all means, by ensuring all
certifications are on time, issuing timely payments and continuing to support you in all matters related
to your Subcontract Works. Our aforementioned support is also substantiated by the fact that we have
been assisting you financially by issuing Third Party Agreements, On Accounts Payments, certifying more
than your actual progress on site and issuing direct LPO’s to your suppliers etc.
As mentioned above, at the time of writing this letter, you have failed your Contractual Obligations to
manage your works which consequently puts the Project’s Milestones at risk. In view of the above, you
are informed that the situation is becoming harmful to the Contractor’s obligations under the Contract.
Consequently, a potential Claim against you pursuant but not limited to Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] is
now becoming more evident, if you do not take all appropriate measures to rectify your failures
immediately. Please be informed that not proceeding with the works as instructed is considered a
breach of Contract.
Therefore, in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby instruct you pursuant to Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to proceed immediately and take action for
the following issues:
•
You are instructed to ensure that all materials are delivered and installed by 30th May 2018. In
case you do not comply with this instruction the soonest, we will need to take appropriate action.
In view of the above if you continue to fail we will appoint a Third Party to execute the works and all
associated costs will be recovered from your account in accordance but not limited to the Subcontract
Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
To conclude, we hereby give you a Notice to Correct under the Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to
Correct] to proceed with the works accordingly and immediately. At this juncture, we must emphasize
once more that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].

Finally, this Notice to Correct requires your response within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
