Dear Sir,
Further to the issue of Engineer's Instruction as referenced above, the Engineer's Assistant directs the
Contractor, under Sub-Clause 13.2. 1, to submit a detailed price quotat ion for the scope and delivery
obligations as described within Engineer's Instruction 84.

In addition and pursuant lo Sub-Clause 13.2.2, lhe Engineer's Assistant instructs Contractor to review the
following required information deliverables that are necessary for the Engineer's Assistant to review and
accept in the overall execution and programme outcome for Lot 2.1 Centralised Cooling.

1.
An Executive Summary tendering methodology of say no more than one (1) page that must
include two (2) separate options:
a)

Option 1: Design, Supply and Install direct by Contractor

b)
Option 2: Provision by at least three (3) specialist Fabricate, Supply, .Install and
Commission companies, that includes any additionaldesign work, specific to each company.
2.
In relation to the direction under 13.2.1, separate detailed pricings for Option 1 and Option 2
above.

3.
An executive summary of one (1) page providing insight into Contractor's Execution Plan for this
work.
4.
A summarised Procurement Strategy for the sourcing and delivery of key specialist equipment
including mitigation associated with any long lead item issues.
5.
A level 1 programme for the commencement, fabrication, delivery installation of the work, for
integration into Contractor's Master baseline Programme. ensure mitigation measures are in place to
avoid any impact on required KITO dates.
6.
A brief Interface Plan that must include (but not limited to) MSI interface issues that are known
or may arise.

It is a requirement of this instruction that Contractor includes and integrates all current design work that
may be associated with the Engineer's Instruction 84, thus avoiding any potentialdesign rework.

Contractor is to submit the above deliverables Items 1 to 6 within twenty one (21) days from receipt of
this instruction.
Dear Sir,
Engineer's Assistant refers to letter referenced above wherein Contractor was requested to submit a
quotation for any cost and time impact. Contractor's response was due by 26 April 2016.

Contractor has failed to submit quotation. This is a reminder of the obligation pursuantlo Sub-Clause
13.2.1 to submit the quotation within time specified.

Failur to respond within five (5) days of receipt of this reminder will lead the Engineer's Assistant to
consider furthe action.
Yours faithfully,
