Dear Sir,

We are pleased to invite your company (Tenderer) to tender for the Utility Diversion Works at Ras Bu
Abboud Station. This work forms part of the design and construction of Doha Metro Gold Line
Underground consisting of 11.7km of twin bored tunnels from Al Aziziyah (Villaggio) Station to Ras bu
Abboud (Airport City North) Station, with 10 No. stations.

Accordingly, we enclose one CD-ROM containing all the documents for your tender submission
purposes. The Main Contract Extracts are provided for your information. The Tenderer must comply
with all ALYSJ method statements and procedures, along with all Employer Requirements as detailed in
the Main Contract. The Tenderer is advised to arrange a site visit to ascertain site conditions and
logistical issues.

You are requested to submit a price for the works on a “Lump Sum All Inclusive” basis as per the
attached Scope of Works, Schedule of Rates, Main Contract Extracts, Conditions of Contract, and actual
Site conditions, together with a list of available resources which will be used to ascertain your
capabilities and therefore the volume of work that will be assigned should you be successful in your bid.
Please note that the quantities mentioned in the Schedule of Rates are indicative of the actual works,
therefore the Tenderer must check the actual site conditions before pricing, to ensure this “Lump Sum
All Inclusive” price accounts for all items which may not be identified in the Appendices to this tender
but are still required for the satisfactory completion of this Scope of Works.

Your tender submission is to be fully compliant with the tender documents in all respects. Your
particular attention is drawn to the following sections of the documents which require your completion:
1.

Appendix A – Section 2.2 – Acknowledgement of Tender Document

2.

Appendix A – Section 3 – Form of Tender

3.

Appendix A – Section 5 – Form of Statement of Compliance

4.

Appendix A – Section 6 – Attachment A & B

5.

Appendix B – Schedule of Rates

In addition to the above, it is a mandatory requirement for the tender submission to be submitted under
the cover of company letter, signed by an authorized signatory, together with the following
documentation:

The Technical and Commercial components of the Tender are explained in item 2.7.1 in Appendix A
(Tender Conditions).

The Tender Document must be returned by hand in a sealed envelope (a hard and a soft copy) to ALYSJ
Documents Control Department, marked as “Original” as no later than 12 Noon on the 4th January
2016, to the following address:

ALYSJ Joint Venture
Package 3 – Gold Line Underground,
P.O. Box 24375
Near Al Waab Petrol Station
Behind Qtel Building
Al Waab Street,
Al Waab
Doha, State of Qatar.

Attention: Mr. Ebrahim Al Jaber - ALYSJ Commercial Department

If you have any questions / need for clarifications relating to the enclosed Tender Documentation during
the tender period, you are requested to send “Query Form” (which was provided in Appendix A Tender
Conditions) to the attention of:
Point of Contact: Mr. Ebrahim Al Jaber
Telephone: +974 6689 8368
Email: Ealjaber@goldlinemetro.qa

These queries and replies will be shared to all tenderers. The Tenderer is required to supply a “Point of
Contact” for this tender via the email address confirmed above.

We look forward to receiving your fully compliant tender on or before 12 Noon on the 4th January 2016.

Yours faithfully,
