Subject: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor
Dear Sir,
We have received under cover of AECOM Transmittal Advice Form MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-TML-01448
dated 181
h March 2015, detailed particulars from the Employer Representative pertaining to alleged
non-payment by you to your 2nd tier suppliers for goods manufactured and delivered to the Project.
This issue is highly embarrassing as the notification has come directly from the Employer. The
information that has been made available to us is that your main suppliers of ductwork have now
ceased production until such time as payment is made. For ease of reference we have been advised
that;
1. Rapid Cool have no Gl Ducts in manufacture for the MTB Project as they are
awaiting payment from PCEJV
2. BK Gulf has not manufactured any Gl Ductwork for the project for 3 weeks due to
late ·payments from PCEJV.
3. China State have not manufactured any Gl Ductwork for the MTB Project for 3
months and are awaiting a AED 5,000,000.00 Payment
4. Noor AI Yemen are no longer prepared to supply Gl Ductwork to the MTB Project
due to consistent late payments by PCEJV
5. Gulf Ducts are no longer prepared to supply Gl Ductwork to the MTB Project due to
consistent late payments from PCEJV
6. Seagull are currently supplying Fire Rated Ductwork to the MTB Project but have
raised concerns/ issues with regards to the outstanding payments due from PCEJV
7. EFECO are the only company currently manufacturing & delivering Gl Duct to the
MTB Project.
The aforementioned is completely unacceptable. You have previously been advised under cover of
letter MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001189 dated 22nd Feb 2015 that such actions will not be tolerated and that
there are mechanisms within the contract to deal with the same. For ease of reference we once again
would make reference to the following Clause 21.3 of the Sub-Contract Agreement between PCEJV &
TCAJV in that;

Subject: Notice to Correct: Sub-subcontractor Performance
Dear Sir,
We hereby write pursuant to the Subcontract Agreement referenced 1) above for "Design (If any),
Supply,
Installation and the Rectification of defects therein of the Internal Flooring Stone Work Package" and
with
regards to the above mentioned subject matter.
We have been informed by you during the meeting of March 28th 2016 held in our office, that you have
instructed your screeding subcontractor to stop all screeding works in the project. Your decision has
been
taken without seeking any advice and coordination with the TCAJV Management Team or Construction
Management Teams. Your actions are jeopardizing the progress not only of the stone flooring works but
of all activities in progress at the site, and such can create delays to the project for which you will be
held
responsible.
According to Subcontract Clause 12.10.4 [Sub-subcontractor Performance], the Subcontractor shall not
suspend or terminate a Sub-subcontract without the prior written approval of the Contractor, such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Therefore in line with Sub Contract Clause 22.1
[Notice to Correct], which states that "If the Subcontractor fails to carry out any obligation under the
Subcontract, the Contractor may by notice require the Subcontractor to make good the failure and to
remedy it within a specified reasonable period,." your are required to take corrective actions
immediately.
This is for your information, record and further action to correct as a m
Yours faithfully,
