Subject: Clause 27.1.1 Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 0056 Multiple RFis raised from
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted Delay Notice No.
0056 "Multiple RFis raised from 09 September 2018 to 26 February 2019".
The Contractor's assertion regarding alleged ambiguities and inadequacies in the design is refuted.
Pursuant to Clause 2.42.2 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No.8 (SAA8) the Contractor
has reviewed the drawings, designs and specifications that relate to Works that have not been
constructed as at the Amendment Effective Date and has accepted that they do not contain any
discrepancies, ambiguities or omissions. Should the Contractor fail to exercise Best Practice in their
review then the Employer is discharged from any claim the Contractor may have had.
The Contractor is therefore requested to demonstrate that they have exercised the required Best
Practice in reviewing the design as per the above SAA8 Clause.
Furthermore, the attached RFI schedule is misleading since more than 50% of the RFis appear to have
been responded within the contractual timeframe. For the remaining RFis, the Contractor has failed to
evidence that their Programme has been impacted as a result of "delayed" response time.
Notwithstanding the above, the Engineer highlights the Contractor's obligation to submit a fully
detailed claim in accordance with the requirements of Clause 27.1.5 within 42 days from the date of
the events which allegedly give rise to the delay. Furthermore, the Contractor is also obligated to
submit a Time Impact Analysis in accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within 28 days in order to enable us to
review any entitlement the Contractor may have.
In addition, the Contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delay as required under Clause 16.5.3 of the Conditions of Contract.
Compliance with the above stated obligations is essential as this will form part of the basis of the
Engineer's assessment of the Contractor's submitted delaying events.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor shall not consider such correspondence as an
acknowledgment for any entitlement to additional time and/or cost.
Yours faithfully,
