
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENT TO SUBCONTRACT FOR

CEILING WORKS

At Midfield Terminal Building
Abu Dhabi International Airport
By and between
The TCA Joint Venture comprised of
TAV TEPE AKFEN YATIRIM, İNŞAAT VE İŞLETME A.Ş.
(TAV TEPE AFKEN INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION JSC);
CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTING ENGINEERING & PROCUREMENT S.A.L. (OFFSHORE); AND
ARABTEC CONSTRUCTION LLC
(the “Contractor”)
And
CLOISALL CO. L.L.C
(the “Subcontractor”)
Subcontract reference MTB–SUB- 039B
This Settlement Agreement and Amendment ("Settlement Agreement and Amendment") is made this
11st day of November 2018 between:
(I)
TAV TEPE AKFEN YATIRIM, İNŞAAT VE İŞLETME A.Ş. (TAV TEPE AKFEN INVESTMENT,
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION JSC), a company established under the laws of Turkey, having its
branch office (with Commercial Licence no. 1180212) at Suruoh Building (804), Muroor (4th) Street, P.O.
Box 63312, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTING ENGINEERING &
PROCUREMENT S.A.L. (OFFSHORE), a company established under the laws of Lebanon, having its branch
office (with Commercial Licence no. 1146385) at Blue Tower Building, Khalifa Street, P.O. Box 224, Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; and ARABTEC CONSTRUCTION LLC, a company established under the laws
of the United Arab Emirates, having its registered office (with Commercial Licence no. 1018102) at PO
Box 8072, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (on own and together the Contractor);and
(II)
Cloisall Co., L.L.C. a company established under the laws of Dubai having its registered
office (with Commercial Licence no. CN-207258) at Office No. 107, Al Aghadeer Building, Bur Dubai and
postal address at PO Box 3366, Dubai, United Arab Emirates (“the Subcontractor”)
The Contractor and the Subcontractor may also be referred to herein singularly as ‘Party’ or together as
‘Parties’.
WHEREAS
A.
The Parties entered into a Subcontract dated 07 August 2014 (Subcontract No. MTB-SUB-039B)
(the “Agreement”) relating to the carrying out of Ceiling Works Package (the Subcontract Works)
forming part of the Project known as the Midfield Terminal Building (the “Project”)

B.
The Parties have agreed that Substantial Completion of the Project shall be achieved no later
than 30 June 2019, subject to the provisions of this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
C.
The Parties have further agreed re-scheduling the Times for Completion, a Revised Subcontract
Price, the settlement of certain claims, and certain further matters.
D.
In consequence, and in the best interest of completing the Subcontract Works, the Parties wish
by this Settlement Agreement and Amendment to record the terms of such agreement and to amend
the provisions of the Subcontract as set out in this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
IT IS HEREBY AGREED
1.
INTERPRETATION
1.1
All clauses, terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall, save as amended by this Settlement
Agreement and Amendment, remain in full force and effect.
1.2
Unless the context otherwise suggests, a reference in this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment to a "clause" or an “Appendix” shall be to the corresponding clause or Appendix of this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
1.3
Unless the context otherwise suggests, a reference in this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment to a clause “of the Subcontract” is a reference to the corresponding clause of the
Conditions of the Subcontract, and a reference to a “Schedule” is a reference to the corresponding
schedule attached to the Conditions of Subcontract.
1.4
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings provided in the Subcontract.
1.5
This Settlement Agreement and Amendment is supplemental to and shall be read as part of the
Subcontract, which together constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties
hereto. All provisions of the Subcontract shall, save as expressly amended or disapplied by this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment, remain in full force and effect.
1.6
The Parties agree that they have entered into this Settlement Agreement and Amendment in
good faith and that it represents and constitutes a fair and equitable arrangement. The Parties warrant
that they are not aware of anything which would affect the validity or enforceability of this Settlement
Agreement and Amendment and will take all steps necessary to preserve the validity and enforceability
of this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
1.7
In this Settlement Agreement and Amendment:
1.7.1 “Amendment Effective Date” means 04 September 2018;
1.7.2 “Subcontractor’s Settled Claims” means all claims made by the Subcontractor against the
Contractor, or which the Subcontractor would be entitled to make against the Contractor but for this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1, arising out of or in consequence of any event or
occurrence (including for the avoidance of doubt all Included Circumstances) occurring before or on the
Amendment Effective Date, whether or not the existence of the same was known to either Party as at
the Amendment Effective Date and which but for this Settlement Agreement and Amendment would
entitle the Subcontractor:
(a)
to an extension of any Time for Completion, payment of additional Cost, any increase in the
Subcontract Price and/or any additional payment; and/or
(b)
to submit a claim, against the Contractor for damages for breach of Subcontract, negligence or
any other default,
regardless of whether a Time/Cost Record has been issued for any of the foregoing.
1.7.3 “Included Circumstances” means:
prolongation; acceleration; disruption; thickening;
instructions of the Engineer and/or Contractor; Variations, product substitutions, other changes to the
Works and briefing packs notified or instructed to the Subcontractor; Value Engineering Items; Bulletins
issued by the Employer and/or the Engineer; requests for information issued by the Subcontractor and
responses thereto issued by the Contractor and/or the Engineer; any rectification works; circumstances;
and disputes, differences and controversies between the Parties;

1.7.4 “Operational Readiness Validation Phase” means the Operational Readiness Validation Phase as
that term is understood in Section 01 99 00 of the Specification.
1.7.5 Words such as “including”, “such as”, “for instance”, “for example” and any other similar
expressions are to be construed without limitation.
2.
AMENDMENTS TO THE SUBCONTRACT
2.1
The Subcontract shall be amended as set out in this clause 2 with effect from the Amendment
Effective Date.
Subcontract Price
2.2
The Parties agree that Subcontract Price shall be increased to the sum of Six Hundred Twenty
One Million, Eight Hundred Forty Thousand and Two Hundred Sixty Six Dirhams AED 621,840,266.07)
(the “Revised Subcontract Price”) as at the Amendment Effective Date.
2.3
The Subcontractor agrees that the Subcontractor shall achieve Substantial Completion of the
whole of the Works on or before 30 June 2019 subject only to any extension to the Time for Completion
that is permitted by this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
2.4
The Subcontract Price, increased to the Revised Subcontract Price, represents the payment to
which the Subcontractor shall be entitled:
2.4.1 in consideration for the Subcontractor carrying out the execution and completion of the whole
of the Works, including achieving Substantial Completion of the whole of the Works on or before 30
June 2019, and performing its obligations under and in accordance with the Subcontract as amended by
this Settlement Agreement and Amendment;
2.4.2 in full and final settlement of the Subcontractor’s Settled Claims;
2.4.3 for re-sequencing and rescheduling of the Works in consequence of the re-phasing by the
Employer of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase and NOTP;
2.4.4 for the avoidance of doubt, in compensation for the costs of extension of any warranties
required by the Subcontract in consequence of delay to, or rescheduling of, the Works; and
2.4.5 for the Subcontractor’s assumption of risks as set out in this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment,
subject to the terms of the Subcontract as amended by this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
2.5
The Subcontract Price, increased to the Revised Subcontract Price, shall be secured by the
Subcontractor:
2.5.1 issuing an additional performance bond in the form of the Performance Bond so that the total
value of this additional performance bond and the existing performance bonds equal ten percent (10%)
of the Revised Subcontract Price;
2.5.2 increasing the value of the retention bond so that it equals five percent (5%) of the Revised
Subcontract Price;
2.5.3 extending the validity of the existing performance bonds and retention bond to take into
account the amendment and extension of the Milestones and Times for Completion as set out in
Appendix B; and
2.5.4 issuing replacement parent company guarantees in the same form as those previously
submitted by the Subcontractor, guaranteeing the performance of the Subcontractor’s obligations,
all of which shall be delivered to the Contractor within thirty (30) Days of the date of execution of this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment by all parties.
Schedule 16
2.6
Schedule 16 (Milestones) shall be deleted and replaced with the new Schedule 16 set out in
Appendix B.
Operational Readiness Validation Phase and NOTP
2.7
The Subcontractor acknowledges that:

2.7.1 the Employer will commence the Operational Readiness Validation Phase prior to Substantial
Completion and Taking Over of the Works and part of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase shall
be carried out prior to Substantial Completion and Taking Over of the Works, and part shall be carried
out after Substantial Completion and Taking Over of the Works; and
2.7.2 the NOTP shall be carried out prior to Substantial Completion and Taking Over of the Works.
2.8
The following new sub-clause 18.2.5 shall be inserted into clause 18.2 of the Subcontract (Taking
Over of Parts of the Works):
“18.2.5 Notwithstanding that the Operational Readiness Validation Phase may commence prior to
Substantial Completion, neither:
(1) the commencement of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase; nor
(2) the carrying out on the Site by Employer’s Personnel, Consultants, other contractors, other
subcontractors, Operators and/or Third Parties of activities forming part of the Operational Readiness
Validation Phase,
at any time, shall constitute the Contractor’s taking possession of any part of the Works for the purposes
of this clauses 18.2.”
2.9
Where the Specification and any other documents forming part of the Subcontract have stated
or inferred the commencement of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase or NOTP upon
Substantial Completion or with the commencement of the Defect Liability Period, or the Defect Liability
Period commencing at the same time as the Operational Readiness Validation Phase, the Subcontractor
further acknowledges and accepts that such statements and inferences shall be deemed to have been
amended to state and infer that the commencement of Operational Readiness Validation Phase and
NOTP will occur before Substantial Completion and Taking Over of the Works.
2.10 In consequence of clause 2.7:
2.10.1 the words “apart from the NOTP not having been completed” in the definition of “Substantial
Completion” in clause 1.1 of the Subcontract are deleted;
2.10.2 the words “NOTP Completion” in clause 13.5.3 of the Subcontract is deleted and replaced with
“Substantial Completion”;
2.10.3 The words “and NOTP Completion” in clause 18.1.1 of the Subcontract are deleted;
2.10.4 the words “(excluding anything to be performed during the NOTP)” in clause 18.1.1(a) of the
Subcontract are deleted;
2.10.5 the words “(excepting the NOTP)” in clause 18.1.3 of the Subcontract are deleted;
2.10.6 the words “Save with regard to the reduction in delay damages applicable between Substantial
Completion and when the NOTP will be completed as specified in Schedule 16 (Milestones)” in clause
18.2.4 are deleted; and
2.10.7 The words “during the NOTP” in clause 24.2.3 are deleted and replaced with “after the NOTP”.
Cooperation
2.11 Clause 12.11 of the Subcontract (Cooperation) shall be amended by the insertion of a new
clause 12.11.5 as follows:
“12.11.5 Notwithstanding the definition of “Other Subcontractors” in clause 1.1 of the Subcontract, the
term “Other Subcontractors” wherever it is used in clauses 12.11 and 12.12 shall include:
(a)
Employer’s and/or Contractor’s Personnel, Consultants, Other Subcontractors, Operators and/or
Third Parties who are engaged in the carrying out of activities forming part of the Operational Readiness
Validation Phase;
(b)
the personnel of Tenants; and
(c)
the personnel of, and consultants and Subcontractors engaged by, any Governmental Authority,
public or private utility or other undertaking described in clause 12.11.1(c), who may be employed in the
execution on or near the Site of any work not included in the Subcontract.

2.12 Clause 12.12.2(b) of the Subcontract shall be amended by the insertion of the following words at
the end of the clause
“and providing the Other Subcontractors with the opportunity to connect their systems to the systems
installed by the Subcontractor at times required by the Employer and/or Contractor.”
Retention
2.13 In paragraph 8 of Schedule 11 (Retention):
2.13.1 the words “Substantial Completion” in subparagraph 8.3 shall be deleted and replaced with the
words “NOTP Completion”; and
2.13.2 the words “NOTP Completion” in subparagraph 8.4 shall be deleted and replaced with the words
“Substantial Completion”.
Risks
2.14 The provisions of the following clauses 2.14 to 2.16.2.2 are notwithstanding any provisions of
the Subcontract or this Settlement Agreement and Amendment to the contrary.
2.15 The Parties acknowledge that the principal risks that may cause delay to Substantial Completion
are as follows:
2.15.1 delay to Milestones 11A and 11B resulting in delay to the Operational Readiness Validation
Phase;
2.15.2 delay or disruption caused by the fit-out works of Tenants;
2.15.3 errors, discrepancies, ambiguities or omissions in designs described in clause 2.24.2;
2.15.4 Force Majeure; and
2.15.5 changes in Applicable Laws.
2.16 The Subcontractor agrees that:
2.16.1 the Subcontractor shall take all steps necessary to mitigate the risks described in clauses 2.15.1
to 2.15.5 at no additional cost to the Contractor save where the risk remains with the Contractor; and
2.16.2 the Subcontractor has reviewed the drawings, designs and specifications set out in or referred
to in the Subcontract that relate to Works that have not been constructed as at the Amendment
Effective Date and that the same do not contain any errors, discrepancies, ambiguities or omissions. The
Subcontractor acknowledges that if it has failed to exercise Best Practice (in the context that the
Subcontractor was appointed in 2014 and has a detailed knowledge of the Project) in so reviewing and
as a result it may otherwise have had entitlement, the Subcontractor hereby, waives and discharges the
Contractor from any claim which the Subcontractor may have had for:
2.16.2.1
an extension of any Time for Completion, payment of additional Cost, any increase in
the Subcontract Price and/or any additional payment; and/or
2.16.2.2
damages for breach of Subcontract, negligence or any other default.
Variations
2.17 Notwithstanding the terms of clause 20.3 (Variation Procedure) of the Subcontract,
2.18 The Subcontractor shall not proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order has been
issued.
2.19 The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to an extension of any Time for Completion, payment of
additional cost, any increase in the Subcontract Price and/or any additional payment in consequence of
a Variation unless the provisions of clause 2.18 have been complied with.
Specification
2.20 The Specification shall be amended as set out in Appendix C.
3.
DISCHARGE OF LIABILITY FOR CLAIMS
3.1
The Subcontractor agrees that:
3.1.1 the amendment and extension of the Milestones and Times for Completion as set out in the
new Schedule 16 (Milestones) set out in Appendix B and Appendix E represent the entire extensions to
all Times for Completion to which the Subcontractor is entitled arising out of or in connection with the

Subcontractor’s Settled Claims and the re-phasing by the Employer of the Operational Readiness
Validation Phase and NOTP;
3.1.2 the Subcontract Price, increased as referred to in clause 2.2, includes sums in full and final
settlement of the Subcontractor’s Settled Claims and all of the Subcontractor’s costs and expenses in
consequence of re-phasing by the Employer of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase and NOTP;
3.1.3 this Settlement Agreement and Amendment shall be the definitive record of the Subcontractor’s
entitlement set out in clauses 3.1.1. and 3.1.2 and the increase in the Subcontract Price set out in clause
2.2; and
3.1.4 the Subcontractor discharges the Contractor from liability for any further extension of time or
payment arising out of or in connection with the Subcontractor’s Settled Claims and the re-phasing by
the Employer of the Operational Readiness Validation Phase and NOTP.
3.2
For the avoidance of any doubt, delay damages pursuant to clause 16.6 (Delay Damages) of the
Subcontract shall be applicable as set out in the new Schedule 16 in Appendix B and nothing in this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment shall have the effect of discharging the Subcontractor from
liability for such delay damages.
4.
PROGRAMME
4.1
The Subcontractor acknowledges that the progress of the Works is showing slippage in
comparison to the Programme Revision 10.4 (which for the avoidance of any doubt has not been
approved by the Engineer as the Programme but which the Parties and the Engineer have agreed to use
for monitoring and planning purposes that reflects the date of 30 June 2019 for Substantial Completion
of the whole of the Works). The Subcontractor further acknowledges that achievement of the
Milestones by the dates as set out in the new Schedule 16 (Milestones) in Appendix B is of critical
importance to the Project and to the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
4.2
Notwithstanding clause 4.1, the Subcontractor acknowledges that the Employer and/or
Contractor may re-schedule the activities in the ORAT Schedule, including the commencement and
termination dates of activities, and the sequence of activities. The Subcontractor shall accommodate
and support any such re-scheduled activities at no additional cost to the Contractor in order that the
Milestone dates set out in the new Schedule 16 (Milestones) in Appendix B shall be achieved, and the
Subcontractor shall have no claim against the Contractor for any delay, disruption to the Works,
adjustment of the Subcontract Price, additional payment or damages arising in consequence of such rescheduling, and accommodation and support of re-scheduled activities, save in the event that such
rescheduling causes critical delay to a Time for Completion in which event the Subcontractor shall be
entitled to an extension to the Time for Completion and recovery of additional Cost resulting from such
delay subject to compliance with the requirements of the Subcontract relating to extension to a Time for
Completion and recovery of additional Cost.
5.
LAW AND JURISDICTION
5.1
This Settlement Agreement and Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the federal laws of the United Arab Emirates as applied in
the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
5.2
Any dispute, difference, controversy or claim of any kind whatsoever that arises or occurs
between the Parties in relation to any matter arising under, out of, or in connection with this Settlement
Agreement and Amendment shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution procedure set
out in clause 27 of the Subcontract.
6.
WAIVERS AND REMEDIES
6.1
A Party can only waive a right or remedy provided in this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment or by law, by express written notice.

6.2
If a Party delays or fails to exercise any power, right or remedy under this Settlement Agreement
and Amendment No. 1, this will not operate and may not be construed as a waiver of that power, right
or remedy, nor will it impair or prejudice it.
6.3
Any single or partial exercise or waiver of any power, right or remedy will not preclude its
further exercise or the exercise of any other power, right or remedy.
7.
AMENDMENT
7.1
No amendment or other variation to this Settlement Agreement and Amendment shall be
effective unless it is in writing, is dated and signed by or on behalf of each of the Parties.
8.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
8.1
This Settlement Agreement and Amendment together with any documents appended to it or
referred to in it sets out the whole agreement between the Parties and supersedes any previous
arrangement, understanding or agreement (whether written or oral) between them relating to the
subject matter of this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
8.2
Except as required by law, no terms shall be implied (whether by custom, usage or otherwise)
into this Settlement Agreement and Amendment.
8.3
Each Party confirms that, in entering into this Settlement Agreement and Amendment it is not
relying on any statement, representation, assurance or promise made by any person (whether a party to
this Settlement Agreement and Amendment or not) that is not expressly set out in this Settlement
Agreement and Amendment or those documents appended to it or referred to in it (Representation).
8.4
Each Party agrees that it has no rights or remedies arising out of or in connection with a
Representation and that its only rights and remedies are set out in this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment.
8.5
Nothing in this clause 8 shall limit or exclude any liability for fraud or fraudulent
misrepresentation.
9.
CONFIDENTIALITY AND AUTHORITY TO SIGN
9.1
The Parties shall keep details of this Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1 strictly
confidential and not disclose the contents to any third party, except that the Contractor shall have the
right to disclose the same to any Governmental Authority and any Consultant in accordance with clause
9.2, and either Party shall have the right to disclose to the Engineer. This clause shall not apply to any
dispute under clause 27 of the Contract and any alternative dispute resolution mechanism agreed by the
Parties.
9.2
The Subcontractor agrees that in the event that the Contractor has a claim against any
subcontractor or Consultant, or wishes to defend a claim by any subcontractor or Consultant against the
Contractor, the Contractor may disclose this Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to such
subcontractor or Consultant, and may disclose it as evidence in any conciliation, arbitration, litigation or
other proceedings between the Contractor and such subcontractor or Consultant, provided that the
subcontractor or Consultant shall be required to keep this Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1
confidential save that it may disclose this Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to: (i) its
personnel and its subconsultants and their personnel involved in such claim or proceedings; (ii) its legal
and claims advisors; and (iii) any other parties required by Applicable Laws or court, or arbitral, order
provided that the subconsultant’s obligations of confidentiality shall extend to such parties..
9.3
The Contractor agrees that in the event that the Subcontractor has a claim against any
Subsubcontractor, or wishes to defend a claim by any Subsubcontractor against the Subcontractor, the
Subcontractor may disclose this Settlement Agreement and Amendment No.1 to such Subsubcontractor,
and may disclose it as evidence in any conciliation, arbitration, litigation or other proceedings between
the Subsontractor and such Subsubcontractor, provided that the Subsubcontractor shall keep this
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 1 confidential save that it may disclose this Settlement
Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to: (i) its personnel and its Subsubcontractors and their personnel

involved in such claim or proceedings; (ii) its legal and claims advisors; and (iii) any other parties
required by Applicable Laws or court, or arbitral, order provided that the Subsubcontractor’s obligations
of confidentiality shall extend to such parties .
9.4
The Parties represent and warrant that the individuals signing this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment No. 1 have the necessary power to execute this Settlement Agreement and Amendment
No. 1 and all necessary corporate, shareholder, and/or other action and consents have been taken, or as
the case may be, received to authorize such individuals to sign this Settlement Agreement and
Amendment No.1.
Executed the day and date first above written in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

For and on behalf of Contractor

_____________________________________
Name:
Title:

_____________________________________
Name:
Title:

_____________________________________
Name:
Title:

For and on behalf of The Subcontractor

_____________________________________
Name:
Title:

APPENDIX A
Breakdown of Revised Subcontract Price

ITEM NO
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

DESCRIPTION

VALUE

9
10
11
12
14
16
13
15
17
18
19
20
TOTAL

The above is not an exhaustive list of all variations included within the settlement agreement
Original Subcontract Price
491,000,000.00
Revised Subcontract Price
621,840,266.07

APPENDIX B
New Schedule 16 (Milestones)
MTB Heads of Agreement Milestones MTB Amendment Agreement No. 8 Milestones Status Revised
Date Delay Damages
MS01 Commence Structural Slab at Arrivals Level (I)
Completed
Nil
MS02 Complete BHS Design and Test Loop (D)
Completed
Nil
MS03 Complete 1st Arch Buttress (I)
Completed
Nil
MS04A Completion of Roof Truss alignment removal of all temporary support structures from West
Elevation of Central Processor - this will be the date on which the temporary propping structures are
completely removed from under the trusses and associated roof structure allowing the curtain walling
to commence on the western elevation.
Completed
Nil
MS04B Completion of Roof Truss alignment removal of all temporary support structures from East
Elevation of Central Processor - this will be the date on which the temporary propping structures are
completely removed from under the trusses and associated roof structure.
Completed
Nil
MS05A Complete the extreme North and South spans of the DAS Bridge, excluding Footbridges and
finishes, suitable for connection to elevated concrete access roads constructed by others.
Completed
Nil
MS05B Complete the remaining central spans (Z6 to Z10) of the DAS Bridge, excluding footbridges and
finishes.
Completed
Nil
MS06 All work within the shell and core areas in Central Processor level 2 and above identified on the
Contract documents are complete including finishes as well as HVAC. Fire Protection, Plumbing,

Electrical and Special Systems services to each space for future connection by the Tenant Contractors.
The milestone will be considered complete when all areas are inspected and accepted and all
outstanding work and defects list items completed and/or corrected with no outstanding work and
allow undisturbed and uninterrupted access for build-out/fit-out by Other Contractors. MS06A
All
Works identified in the spaces for all Tenant areas is complete for future connection by Other
Contractors. The milestone will be considered complete when all areas are inspected and accepted by
the Engineer in order to allow undisturbed and uninterrupted access for build-out / fit-out by Other
Contractors, with the exception of the Tenant areas impacted by Bulletin 256 series.
Open - New
31-Dec-2018 0.1% of Subcontract Price per day of delay as Contractor's Delay Damage
MS06B All Works identified in the Tenant areas impacted by Bulletin 256 series is complete for
future connection by Other Contractors. The milestone will be considered complete when all areas are
inspected and accepted by the Engineer in order to allow undisturbed and uninterrupted access for
build-out / fit-out by Other Contractors. Open - New
28-Feb-2019 0.1% of Subcontract Price per
day of delay as Contractor's Delay Damage
MS07 All BHS structure and equipment installed, aligned, trained complete in place, electrical powered
equipment terminated and all elements of system inspected, tested and accepted, with all snag lists and
punch list items completed or corrected with no outstanding work, system ready for commissioning.
MS07 All BHS structure and equipment installed, aligned, trained complete in place, electrical
powered equipment terminated, and all elements of system inspected, including testing and
commissioning, in accordance with Volume 3, Specifications, Section 34 7716, Item 4.11.2 (including all
sub-items).
Open - Amended
31-Oct-2018 Nil
MTB Heads of Agreement Milestones MTB Amendment Agreement No. 8 Milestones Status Revised
Date Delay Damages
MS07A Below Level 2 but excluding any main integration or interfaces requiring non BHS operational
systems (MCRs not available)
Not used
MS07B BHS Complete LV2
Not used
MS08A Electrical Power on to Central Processor - this will be the date on which the first substation in
the Central Processor are energized from the interim electrical power supply and become continuously
available for ongoing testing and commissioning, including all necessary and relevant inspections and
approvals
Completed
Nil
MS08B Electrical Power on to Pier 2- this will be the date on which the first substation in the Pier are
energized from the interim electrical power supply and become continuously available for ongoing
testing and commissioning, including all necessary and relevant inspections and approvals
Completed
Nil
MS09A.1 Complete Pier 2
Not used
MS09A.2 Complete Pier 3
Not used
MS09A.3 Complete Pier 1
Not used
MS09A.4 Complete Pier 4
Not used
MS09A.5 Central Processor (LB2, LB1, L0.0 - Back of House)
Not used
MS09A.6 Central Processor (LB2, LB1, L0.0 - Front of House)
Not used
MS09A.7 Central Processor (L0.1,L1.0)
Not used
MS09A successful completion of the requirements for 'unit' basic trials in accordance with the
"Operational Readiness & Airport Transition ORAT - TRIALS BASIC UNIT TRIALS PLAN" (reference MTCORAT-PRN-TRT_TRI-0026-00 dated 11 July 2018).
Open - New
15-Jan-2019
0.1%
of
Subcontract Price per day of delay as Contractor's Delay Damage
MS09B completion of the whole of the Works excluding outstanding Works defined as follows:
• Pier 2 building completion certificate (BCC);
• Cause & effect integration of Pier 2 and Overall;

• Remaining snagging and de-snagging in Central Processor and Pier 2;
• Final building integration which not critical to the cause & effect and ORAT advance trials;
• Final rectification of defects and reinstatement of non-conforming works related to subsidence.

Open - Amended
Contractor's Delay Damage

30-Jun-2019

0.1% of Subcontract Price per day of delay as

MTB Heads of Agreement Milestones MTB Amendment Agreement No. 8 Milestones Status Revised
Date Delay Damages
MS09B Midfield Terminal Building complete, Building and all facilities including all Specialist Systems,
HVAC, all electrical equipment and services, all ICT, HBSS, wayfinding signage, FF&E and all other items
in place complete, finished, inspected, tested and accepted, commissioned, debugged and completely
operational in a fully air conditioned facility, ready for the ORAT team to begin the validation phase and
acceptance of the completed facilities. This milestone does not include the Non-Operational Trial Period
for the BHS however the BS must be complete in every other respect, including testing and
commissioning in accordance with Volume 3, Specification Section 34 77 16, item 4.11.2 (including all
sub-items).
MS09C Substantial Completion. Open - New
31-Oct-2019 0.1% of Subcontract
Price per day of delay as Contractor's Delay Damage
MS10 Successful completion of the Non-Operational Trial Period in accordance with Volume 3
Specification Section 34 77 16, item 4.11.3 (including all sub-items) for the BHS. MS10
Successful
completion of the Non-Operational Trial Period (NOTP) in accordance with Volume 3, Specifications,
Section 347716, Item 4.11.3 (including all sub-items) for the BHS.
Open -Same
31-Jan-2019
AED 7,400,000 per day
)

APPENDIX C
Amendments to Specification

Where the Specification and any other documents forming part of the Subcontract have stated or
inferred the commencement of Operational Readiness Validation Phase or NOTP upon Substantial
Completion or with the commencement of the Defect Liability Period, or the Defect Liability Period
commencing at the same time as the Operational Readiness Validation Phase, the Subcontractor further
acknowledges and accepts that such statements and inferences in the Specification and such other
documents shall be deemed to have been amended to state and infer that the commencement of
Operational Readiness Validation Phase or NOTP will occur before Substantial Completion and Taking
Over of the Works.

Section 01 31 15
Clause 1.5, C requirement for Tenant Subcontractors to use the Subcontractor’s major subSubcontractors: amend “shall” to “may”.

APPENDIX F - Employer’s Indicative Planned ORAT Schedule

Subject:Re: Notice to Correct Nr. 3- Architectural Metalworks in CP Area
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (2) regarding the subject matter which is a
response to our letter referenced (1) above, requesting us to cancel the content of our said letter.
Please note that even though you have indeed resumed the works at 05/22 stairs, however, we note
that you are still behind the schedule and unable to meet your Subcontract obligations.
Furthermore, serious issues regarding the completion of stairs in terms of quality and quantity have
been observed and the works will be definitely delayed, which is unacceptable. We also put on record,
that you are unable to fabricate the aluminum perforated panels on time and there are currently more
than 1000 pending panels on site. With your current resources, your rate of progress is at maximum 4
pieces per day, which is not sufficient and has to be resolved immediately.
In view of the above, you are instructed to provide a comprehensive schedule within seven (7) days of
receipt of this letter, providing how you will mitigate the delays to complete the works at the earliest.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of your persistent delays noted above, shall be at your risk and recovered from your
account in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 and other
relevant clauses.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
