
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0218
Damage to Passenger Boarding Bridge at GH10 due to Employer’s MTA Contractor
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays attributable to damages caused by the Employer’s Other [MTA] Contractor (L&T)
to the Passenger Boarding Bridge (PBB) at Gatehouse GH10; which requires rectification and as such will
require you to issue an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required

We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs at Annex B that collectively serve to evidence that damage
has been caused to the previously installed and completed Passenger Boarding Bridge (PBB) to
Gatehouse GH10 by the MTA Contractor (L&&), and specifically, damage to both the PBB and to a CCTV
camera. Some of these photographs indicating the damage caused are reproduced in Photo 1 to Photo 5
below:
Photo 1 Photo 2
Kindly note that we cannot be certain when the damage was caused by L&T; we do know however, that
the last de-snagging inspection to the PBB was held on 2 May 2019 and the date the photos were taken
is 26 January 2020. Irrespective of when caused, the resultant damage is not of our doing or
responsibility, and any rectification / remedial works necessarily required at this stage, will invariably
delay us.
In which respect, as noted on our letter dated 16 February 2020 (ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/015316), we are in the process of obtaining a detailed report from the PBB
subcontractor (TKAS) to establish the full extent of damage caused and resultant impact. This will be
forwarded to you as soon as it becomes available.
As you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required
and on the basis that the necessary repairs to the PBB and CCTV camera to GH10 will put us to
additional expense [and time] we therefore request that you issue us a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s
Instruction (EI) as necessarily required in order for us to undertake the remedial work and be paid
accordingly.
We also request you to take whatever necessary action is required on your part to prevent any further
occurrence of damages to our previously completed Works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
