Subject:Notice of Delay / Notice to Correct – Architectural Metalworks in CP Area
Dear Sir,
Further to our email reminder referenced in (4) above and in continuation to our numerous reminders
during meetings and telecommunications, regarding the subject matter, this is to put on record our
concern about your continuous poor performance and lack of progress in the CP area, mainly on the
following:
1Lack of manpower in CP area.
2Failure to commence works on 38 nr. staircases that have been ready and available for you to
commence with the works.
3Failure to assign adequate manpower by the 15th of July 2018, as instructed. It is noted that
currently, there are only three (3 nr.) helpers doing the marking.
4Failure to complete the installation of inner brackets for fifteen (15nr.) staircases (Phase 1) by
the 22nd July 2018. We put on record that to date, you are yet to commence with these works.
5It is now becoming obvious that you will fail to complete the installation of outer brackets for
fifteen (15 nr.) staircases (Phase 1) by the 31st of July 2018, since you have not commenced with the
works.
6Failure to submit a program schedule for the remaining twenty three (23 nr.) staircases (Phase
2).
7Failure to complete and handover Stair 5/26 Mock-up by 15th July 2018, as required.
In light of the above, we note your failure to commit with your Subcontract obligations and to take
mitigation measures, to resolve the highlighted issues.
It is evident that your delays will inevitably affect other Subcontractors with the execution of their
works. We hereby issue a formal Notice to Correct pursuant to Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] and
instruct you to take immediate steps to mitigate your aforementioned delays to avoid any further
slippages to the Works.

You are also instructed to submit a “Detailed Mitigation Plan” and a supporting report as per
Subcontract Clause 16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays] within seven (7) of receiving this letter, describing the
revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete the Works
within the Subcontract Time for Completion. Please be informed that you will be held liable for the
consequences arising out of such failures.
Moreover, you are reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1, where
you are required to proceed with the Works with due expedition and without delay, and should neither
delay nor adversely affect our performance and/or Other Subcontractors.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
