Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0152
Engineer’s Request for MTB Contractor to Carry Out Excavations to Expose the MTA Contractor’s (L&T)
Chilled Water Pipes at Entry to Pier 1 from IVC4
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described in
Annex A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern potential delays to the completion of the Works associated
with the rectification of the subsided MTA Contractor’s Main Chilled Water Pipes adjacent to Pier 1.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Description of the Event
Chronology:
On 26 September 2019 [10:00 AM], you e-mailed us requesting assistance in exposing the main Chilled
Water Pipelines at GH 02 - Pier 1 [undertaken by the Employer’s Other Contractor, i.e. the MTA
Contractor, Larsen & Toubro or ‘L&T’], in order to determine whether there had been any movement in

the existing Chilled Water Pipelines (from the time of installation to the present date). We were further
directed to assist you in identifying the routing of the Chilled Water lines, position of thrust blocks, and
the location of entry to the basement, and “thereafter commence excavation to expose same.”
This request was prompted by the fact that a joint, specifically a flange, connecting the incoming Chilled
Water Pipes in the Basement of the Terminal Building show obvious signs of a failure and is leaking. The
specific location of which is circled in red on the following sketch drawing (refer to Figure 1).
Figure 1
Our initial response dated 26 September 2019 [12:49 PM] advised you that we required an Engineer’s
Instruction and information from the MTA Contractor (L&T) regarding their works in the affected area,
in order to consider your request further; this in on the basis that the 1200 mm dia. Main Chilled Water
Pipelines and Thrust Block had been constructed by the MTA Contractor (L&T) vide a separate contract
with the Employer. While our works in the immediate area was limited to the final chilled water pipe
connections maximum 2 metres from the pump room structure to the welded pipe joint and installing a
450 mm dia. GRP Sewer Pipeline [crossing the trench diagonally to the underside of the Chilled Water
Pipe line].
In an further e-mail [timed at 1:27 PM], you provided us with copies of L&T’s IFC Drawings only and not
the as-built or BIM information drawings, but you also said that “we need to carefully excavate and then
hand dig around the pipes”; and confirmed you were “preparing the instruction” but in the meantime
we were to requested to “commence asap.”
In our subsequent e-mail dated 28 September 2019 [10:19 AM], we wrote as follows:
“Having seen the area and reviewed the situation with our team, it is our opinion that to dig the ground
away from above the pipe would be dangerous and therefore respectfully decline your request. The
specialist contractor who laid the pipes should be contact for method statement on how to correct the
leakage.”
In your response issued on 29 September 2019 [11:30 AM], you maintained that our Project Director
“had agreed to move ahead with this” and requested us to liaise as necessary and “confirm the same.”
Meanwhile, we received a further e-mail from you on 29 September 2019 [8:10 AM] informing us that it
was your understanding “that these [Chilled Water] pipes sit on your installed fill”; the inference clearly
being that because of the issues regarding the backfill material [which you are sufficiently aware of but
for brevity are not repeated here], we are purportedly culpable for and hence liable [which is denied].
In our response [timed at 16:03 PM], we provided you with information and records to support the fact
that the chilled water pipes were not laid on TCA JV installed backfill. We did however request for you
to approach L&T for them to provide you their backfill records together with ground test records for the
affected areas, and subject to us receiving the same, we offered to check both sets of information.
At the date of writing, we have not yet received this information.
We have however, received your letter dated 29 September 2019 (ref: 3) that endeavours to ‘instruct
us’ pursuant to Clause 5 (‘Subsidence’) of SAA8 to expose L&T’s Chilled Water Pipes, as follows:
“The Contractor is instructed to excavate the ground around the Chilled Water Pipes from the MTA
chamber IVC4 to the entry point into Pier 1 near Gatehouse 2. The Contractor shall ensure that the
excavation in the proximity of the live pipework is conducted by hand digging. The Contractor shall
provide all required temporary works/traffic management and impose the highest level of safety
controls when executing these works.
Please ensure that levels are taken at the bottom and top of the thrust block and invert levels along the
pipe to the interface with the building structure.”
Additionally, we received a further e-mail from you on 29 September 2019 [6.28 PM] which on the one
hand confirmed that you were in the process of gathering information [which we assume includes

obtaining essential information from L&T], but on the other hand, you urged us “to confirm that [we]
are proceeding with the excavation to expose [the Chilled Water Pipes from the MTA chamber]”.
We responded on 30 September 2019 [09:18 AM] and informed you that we are also gathering further
information but despite requesting information from L&T and their subcontractor, they had yet to reply;
and informed you that until all the facts are known, we would not be undertaking any excavations.
Further to which however, we were compelled to issue a further e-mail on 30 September 2019 [10:06
AM] advising you of the “significant risk that arises from inaction in the rectification of this fault”. Given
its significance, and for the avoidance of doubt, the entire content of our email is reproduced below:
“Upon investigation we have found site records that show these chilled water pipes, and in particular
the thrust block that we consider to be the root cause of this joint failure, to have not been constructed
in accordance with good practice or what we imagine may be the specification and that therefore the
works of another contractor are at fault. Rectification of this joint failure must be carried out by a
specialist and under the control of the contractor whose work is at fault.
[We are] concerned that if this joint that is currently ‘weeping’ actually lets go and releases significant
quantities of pressurised chilled water, then the airport building may be flooded through the
consequentially failed puddle flange/sealed sleeve; adjacent infrastructure may subside due to water
inundation; the main building will lose part (of) or all of its cooling.
Please urgently instruct the responsible contractor to rectify this leak”
In order to support the statement made in the opening paragraph of our e-mail, we herewith provide
the following photograph taken at the time of L&T installing the Main Chilled Water Pipelines adjacent
Pier 1, which somewhat alarmingly, evidences that pipes on the main feed were supported on pallets
and oil drums during the construction of the external valve chamber (refer to Photo 1).
Photo 1
Photo 1 also indicates our 450 mm dia. sewer pipe between MH S1216 to S1217 [bottom right] which
had already been installed at a shallow depth. Notably, the sewer pipe crosses below where the thrust
block would later be installed by L&T and shows that the trench is not deep and the trench width is also
narrow hence in our view, the risk of settlement to our sewer pipe at this point would also be minimal.
Our Position:
Although we continue to undertake further research associated with this matter, in addition to the poor
construction methods adopted by L&T while constructing the Main Chilled Water pipeline evidenced
above, we have reason to believe that there was a water leak during testing of these pipes and if the
pipes were not fully emptied prior to the temporary fittings being removed, a large amount of water
may have been allowed to penetrate the ground thus triggering the subsidence process of the soil.
It could also be that poor backfill methods were employed by L&T underneath the thrust block and the
material has started to settle naturally as confirmed during our extensive collapse settlement and creep
tests from other areas around the site. The amount of collapse settlement should have been previously
calculated by the Employer’s Design Consultant taking into account the weight and size of the thrust
block and also the associated weight of the water in the pipes and allowed for in the design. If however,
this has settled and water has also been allowed to penetrate the adjacent soil due to water leakage
over time, then we have reason to believe this may well cause a sudden collapse as per the inundation
test conducted at CP South.
Moreover, notwithstanding that these works are works of an Other Contractor we are not prepared to
remove any of the overburden from the pipes to undertake any investigative works [as ‘instructed’] due
to the fact that the pipe is already stressed and under pressure. Hence any sudden change of support or
downforce could be catastrophic and potentially a large volume of chilled water could be released
causing serious injury or damage to personnel and / or property. This is a very high risk activity that
needs input and direction from the specialists in this field; and is a risk we are unwilling to take.

In view of this and given the fact the Main Chilled Water Pipelines and Thrust Block are the works of the
Employer’s Other Contractor and not us, then we reiterate that we will not be undertaking the works
‘instructed’ under your letter ref: (3); particularly as it falls outside of the scope of Clause 5 of SAA8.
Meanwhile, it is because of the events and circumstances outlined above, that are at the risk of others,
that we are compelled to raise this e-notice due to the inevitable delays to completion of our Works.
Potential Impact:
The delay in identifying a suitable methodology and then the subsequent rectification of the settled
Main Chilled Water pipelines and Thrust Block by others, may severely our ability to achieve Milestone
MS09B, and may also prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
