Subject: Submitted Likely Delay Notices Evidence of Compliance with the Contract PwrovisioRs
Dear Sir,
We understand, from recent discussions and meetings with the Employer and: the Engineer, that the
current position of the Engineer is that the Contractor's extension of time (f07!) claim for EOT 2 is "time
barred", albeit to date the Engineer has failed to issue a determination on the Contractor's claim despite
the requirements of Clause 27.1.8. The Engineer is reminded that we have issued successive claims for
EOT post Heads of Agreement during the past three years, which we most recently updated via
Consolidated Time Impact Analysis No. 9 (submitted under cover of our letter ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011969 dated 20 November 2017) (TIA ~o .9). The Engineer is extremely late in
rendering its determination with respect to the Contractor's claim, including providing its "detailed
comments" as required by Clause 27.1.6 of the Contract. The Engineer should have issued its
determination by 18 December 2017 for TIANo 9, which is still outstanding as of the date of this letter.
Given the significance of the Engineer's current position (which we have only recently been made aware
of), we are obliged to respond to correct the Engineer's stance.
(1) It is unclear what the Engineer means by time barred
As a threshold matter, it is unclear what the Engineer means by the Contractor's claim being "time
barred." In recent correspondence (e.g., refer~nce 3), the Engineer appears to confuse and conflate two
separate sets of contractual requirements.
As clearly indicated in the table above, the Contract specifies that only non-compliance with Clause 27
.1.1
" bars" a claim (provided that such bars are enforceable as a matter of UAE law, which they are not as
explained below). Otherwise, the Contract provides that the Contractor's claims are only limited (if at
all)
to the extent that the Employer can prove that the Contractor's failure "prevented or prejudiced proper
investigation of the claim."
Clause 16.5.2 does not change this. Clause 16.5.2 provides that:
"If the Contractor considers itself to be entitled to an extension of the Time for Completion,
the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer in accordance with clause 27.1 (Contractor's
Claims) and, if applicable, comply with the provisions set out in clause 27.2 (Time Impact
Analysis). Compliance with the notice requirements of clause 27.1 (Contractor's Claims) and
clause 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) shall be conditions precedent to the Contractor's
entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion. When determining each extension of
the Time for Completion under clause 27.1 (Contractor's Claims), the Engineer shall review
previous determinations and may increase, but not shall decrease, the total extension of the
Time for Completion."
The terms "notice requirements" and "condition precedent" are general, vague and undefined. In
contrast, clause 27.1.9 speaks precisely to this issue.
1 Accordingly, these terms are defined and limited by
clause 27.1.9. This interpretation is rendered unavoidable by the fact that clause 16.5.2 refers to the
requirements of clause 27.1, which includes clause 27.1.9. This means that clause 16.5.2 does not

supersede clause 27 .1.9, but rather, incorporates its requirements.
As such, clause 16.5.2 must mean that, other than non-compliance with clause 27.1.1, an extension of
time determination must consider any prevention or prejudice to the Employer resulting from the
Contractor's non-compliance with clauses 27.1 and 27.2. That means the requirements in clauses 27.1.5
and 27.2 are not "time bars". Any other reading would create an unavoidable conflict between two
provisions of the Contract. This is not the proper way to construe a legal instrument.
Construct1on ~~arabtec MIDFIELD TERMINAL CONTRACTOR
TCA Joint Venture
The Contractor notes that Clause 27.1.1 provides that the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer
whenever it becomes aware, or should become aware, of an event giving rise to a claim. The Contract
does not mandate that the notice be of any specific form other than meeting the requirements of Clause
9.4.1. This means that general correspondence, RFis and other forms of communication suffice?
Given the above, we assume that the Engineer's comment relates only to the Contractor's noncompliance
with Clause 27.1.1. If this assumption is not correct, then the Engineer's position is contradicted by the
plain terms of the Contract.
{2) Claims cannot be strictly time barred as a matter of UAE law
As the Engineer is well aware, the "Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the federal law of the United Arab Emirates as applied in the
Emirate
of Abu Dhabi."4 It is widely recognized that UAE law does not blindly permit the application of
contractual
time bars. To the contrary:
1. Prescription periods in the UAE law are mandatory provisions of law for which parties cannot
contract around;
2. The Employer cannot rely upon time bars where it has actual or constructive notice of the
event giving rise to the Contractor's claim; and
3. The Employer cannot rely upon time bars when it has not strictly complied with the Contract
itself or has impeded the Contractor's performance of its contractual obligations.
Appendix A elucidates these points at greater length. As is clear, the Engineer cannot invoke Clause 27
.1.1
to deny the Contractor's just claims as a matter of UAE law.
The Engineer is required to administer the Contract according to its terms. This includes the governing
law
clause. Thus, the Employer (via the Engineer's conduct) is in breach of the Contract if the Engineer fails
to
apply the Contract in the manner required by UAE law.
In light of (a) the Engineer's current position; and (b) its failure to provide an assessment, to date, of the
Contractor's EOT 2 claim, we would request the Engineer to consider the points elucidated in this letter
and respond accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
