Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0202
Damages to our installed Handrails at CP Level 3.1 North Etihad Lounge Level caused by the Employer’s
Fit-Out Contractor (DEPA) - Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays attributable to damages caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA) to
our previously installed works, which require rectification and as such require an Engineer’s Instruction
(EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.

Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs that collectively serve to evidence damages having been
caused to our previously installed handrails located at CP Level 3.1 North Etihad Lounge. Unfortunately
despite the handrails having been installed, inspected and handed over by us through the WIR process,
these have subsequently been removed without an approved No Objection Certificate (NOC) and a 3
meter sticker has been applied to the glass panels as shown in Figure 1 below. This is directly to the
Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA).
Figure 1
We wish to put on record that the foregoing events are not of our doing or responsibility, and any
rectification / remedial works necessarily required at this stage, will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged works
noted above, will require the issuance of a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid
down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
Furthermore, we request you to take necessary action to prevent any further occurrence of damages to
our previously handed-over Works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
