
Subject: Reply - Notice of Delay 3- Structural Calculations for Balustrades (Type BAL-01 &
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (8) as well as the receipt of Rev.07 of the
calculation on 17 October 2017 as stated in your reply letter. Please note that the Contractor took
proactive action in submitting the calculation to the Engineer for approval immediately, however,
unfortunately it received approval status of Code-3 for the eighth time to date.
It is noted that most of the points you raised as concerns that affected your progress is entirely your
scope of works and the subcontractor should have solved those issues in a timely manner to allow for
the site works to progress as per project schedule requirement.
Kindly find below the Contractor's response to your concerns;
• Item 1: As the Balustrade is a performance item; the base plate on IFC is just indicative thereby design
and coordination is under LMI's scope. Therefore, the base plate design is also under your scope
whether it is embedded or post fixed hence this has no impact on your progress.
• Item 2: This is entirely a coordination issue hence there should be coordinated with concrete stairs and
no excuse is acceptable.
• Item 3: The coordination with other trades is also LMI's responsibility under your scope and this has
not impacted on the actual delays and no excuse is acceptable.
• Item 4: As the balustrade is a performance item; the dimensions provided in IFC are indicative and it
should be designed by the Subcontractor to achieve the specification structural performance
requirements hence it is LMI's scope and no excuse is acceptable.
Item 5: This material specification is provided to you since tender stage, and you should have considered
this at the time of tendering hence no excuse is acceptable.
• Item 6: Unfortunately, The structural calculation provided was not meeting the desired engineering
standards with many mistakes in every revision which resulted in code-3 approval status to date.
• Item 7: This is a general statement which is not evidenced thereby we failed to see any comment that
may have led to any work delay or stoppage.
Additionally, apart from the technical issues that fall under normal coordination and design practice for
such performance scope of work, the main delays are related to the shortage of the materials,
fabrication, delivery and installation including the persistent shortage of manpower to cope with site
progress requirements all over the project areas.
Please be advised that these delays are disrupting the execution of other subcontractors' works and
trades which may result in other subcontractors raising claims against Leader Metal Industries.
Therefore, you again are instructed to resolve all critical issues (procurement and delivery of all required
materials that include provision of adequate skilled manpower} in order to mitigate and recover your
delays.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
You are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3 and 16.4.1 to submit a detailed and
comprehensive report that includes increasing resources, on how the above delay events will be
mitigated, within seven (7} days of the receipt of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
