Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Instruction of reference 7) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.1.1
of Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith full particulars in relation to the varied
scope, quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations. The evaluation enclosed
herewith supersedes the ones previously issued via letter references 2), 4) and 6).

All previous valuations including the one of letter reference 3) that was undertaken by the Engineer’s
Assistant made use of the relevant Schedule of Rates of Volume 2 of the Contract (SoR) in their entirety,
without any due consideration of the fact that the said unit rates are inclusive of design and
preliminaries.

As a matter of logic, any change associated with an overall omission in construction quantities (and
hence direct costs) does not imply a reduced Contract Price vis-à-vis the respective design and
preliminaries, particularly in cases where abortive and / or additional design works have been
necessitated as a direct consequence of such changes.

Pursuant to the General Condition (“GC”) 13.6.2 (b) and provided that the unit rates as provided for in
Volume 2 of the Contract are not reasonably applicable for the reasons explained above, the Contractor
has generated unit rates that are both reasonably applicable and fully inclusive of overheads and profit
by excluding the respective design and preliminaries cost components (i.e. the “constituent parts
thereof”).

It is hence possible to adjust the construction costs in isolation of design and preliminaries in a manner
that is fully compliant with the provisions set forth in Volume 2 and 3 of the Contract. Finally, the
Contractor accepts the Engineer’s Assistant methodology and evaluation of abortive design costs
contained within letter reference 3). For the sake of completeness, the same has been enclosed
herewith as attachment 2) to this letter.

The adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of minus QAR 9,097,981.26 as detailed in
attachments 1) and 2). The Contractor expects this proposal to be accepted by the Engineer’s Assistant
at its current form with no further attempts to recover unjustified savings. The Contractor reserves its
rights to recover any time related costs in connection to this Variation which shall be addressed under a
separate cover.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.

Yours faithfully,
