Subject: ACP fire testing
Dear Sirs,
We refer to the above noted letter and regret that it does not reflect our records of the matter
discussed at the quoted Risk Committee Meeting. For example we are not considering

proceeding with any further third party testing of the ACP and contrary to your letter confirm
once again that we have fulfilled our contractual obligations in this respect.
The discussions at the meeting concerned an operational procedure matter seemingly arising
from a requirement of the Airport Operator to understand what level of protection may be
gained from the external wall assembly in the event an incident outside the building results
in a fire/heat source with the resulting need to evacuate persons from within the building.
We suggested that if we knew exactly what incident criteria were being envisaged it may be
possible to devise a test upon a sample external wall system assembly as defined in the IFC
documents, and the results of such a test could provide data upon which any evacuation
strategy may be developed. We made it clear we would be happy to aid your design team in
this process and left the meeting expecting further consultation in this matter.
For the avoidance of any doubt in respect of what is required of us under the Contract we
would remind you that our responsibility as defined in Specifications 074101 and 074201 (at
section 1.1 in both cases) is to ensure the facade finishes "satisfy the performance
requirements stated in this Specification". We once again confirm, as evidenced inter alia, by
the test provided with the approved MAR, we have ensured that the ACP facade finishes
satisfy the Specification.
Furthermore, even if the quoted NFPA 285 could be said to be a requirement of this Contract
(which is a position that we do not accept), this standard does not apply to facade finishes. At
section 1.2 of the NFPA 285 document the tests' purposes all refer to a 'test wall assembly'
and envisage an external wall assembly with windows set within a multi-storey cellular environment.
The sources of combustion are set both internally and externally at a window with the intention of
investigating the characteristics of flame propagation vertically and horizontally between stories and
adjacent compartments. This does not describe this project’s external wall assembly nor its environment
extant.
We are very much aware that there is an imperative to resolve this matter as it may impact the granting
of civil defense approval and BCC but as it is pertinent to the design of the external wall assembly and
not the façade finishes it is not a matter for which we are responsible. We remain available and keen to
join with your designers in helping to find you solution.
Yours faithfully,
