Subject The Contractor's Presentation of "Concurrent Delay" dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
We write in response to the above referenced correspondence (1) with regard to the Contractor's
Presentation of "Concurrent Delay" dated 18 January 2017.
The Engineer reiterates the contractual requirement for the Contractor to provide an analysis that
demonstrates concurrent delay. Thus, the Contractor's statement that, "the concurrent delay
assessment methodology was done so purely out of courtesy to the Employer" has no contractual basis
and is wholly disregarded by the Engineer.
The Heads of Agreement (HoA) dated OS March 2015, clearly states that the Contractor's Claim for Cost
shall be evaluated and agreed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract,
specifically in this regard, Clauses 16.5.1 (a) to (c), 21.2.1 Conditions of Contract and 1.3.7 of the Project
Control Requirements. As you are aware, until or unless the Contractor complies with its contractual
obligations, it is not entitled to any compensation whatsoever for prolongation costs under the HoA.
The Contractor states that "it was anticipating providing such presentation to representatives of the
Employer only and was not anticipating the attendance of the Engineer". The relevance of this comment
is not clear. Regardless of whether or not the presence of the Engineer was anticipated should not affect
the Contractor presentation in anyway. The Contractor is aware that the Engineer is authorized to
administer the contract and as such the attendance of the Engineer would surely not be unexpected at
all meetings that, at a minimum, relate to contractual or commercial issues.
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's opinion that the points raised via correspondence (2) do
not represent a true and accurate record of the Contractor's presentation and comments as follows:
The Contractor implies that there is no connection between Time Impact Analysis and concurrent delay
and asserts that the purpose of the presentation was to present the methodology adopted for the
assessment of the concurrent delay.
According to the Contract, and in particular, Clauses 16.5.4, 21.2.2, 27.1, 27.2.2 of the Conditions of
Contract and Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Control Requirements, concurrent delay is expressly
linked to and part of the Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA).
Further, during the meeting referred to above, the Employer representatives when commenting on the
Contractor's methodology of Delay Analysis, made specific comments to the Time Impact Analysis and
the Contractor at no time during the meeting raised any objections in this regard.
The Engineer's opinion that the TIA methodology presented was confusing and complicated remains
unchanged. The Contractor's TIA methodology as presented was complicated and confusing. Your
representative spent some time in trying to explain the process of extracting data from Primervera and
then importing it into EXCEL and then exporting to MS Access in order to analyse and modify the data
and then reverse the process to capture it in Primavera. This is per se; unquestionably complicated by
any measure.
The Contractor's statement that "there was no reason to issue any supporting TIA submission pursuant

to Clause 27 of the Conditions of Contract", is not aligned with the terms of the HoA. It has been
recorded on numerous occasions in previous correspondence that according to Clause 23 of the Heads
of Agreement, the Contractor's Claims shall be evaluated and agreed in accordance with the
Construction Contract. Again, within the contents of this letter, the relevant contract clauses relat ing to
evaluation are restated.
Notwithstanding the Contractor alleges that its Consolidated Submission on 27 August 2015 was
provided "to assist in the successful conclusion of the financial negotiations in relation to the Heads of
Agreement", the dates referred to in this correspondence especially in relation to the Piers, are not
aligned with the HoA dates and indicate different completion dates than the dates stated in the HoA
(Appendix 1). The Contractor's submission was in fact seeking an extension of time to Milestones 9A and
9B.
Within its submission of 27 August 2015, the Contractor added fifty (50) new milestones to the
approved
Baseline programme, without prior approval by the Engineer. As you are aware, this unapproved
practice causes the logic of the programme to be altered and corrupts the original programme logic.
These same comments were also highlighted during the presentation by both the Engineer and the
Employer.
In relation to the Contractor's comments pertaining to the independent third party, it is fact that this
'party' is employed and accountable to the Contractor and by definition is not 'independent'.
The Engineer reiterates the statement made in correspondence (2) relating to the Contractor's failure to
finalize the analysis of Contractor concurrent delay. The Contractor is aware, of its contractual
obligation, when substantiating its claim to an extension of time and associated additional Cost, it must
as part of such substantiation include an analysis of Contractor concurrent delay. Until and unless this
requirement is complied with in accordance with the contract, the Contractor's entitlement for
compensation for prolongation cannot be evaluated.
Therefore, the Contractor is urged to address the issues raised above in order to comply with its
obligations under the Contract.
Yours faithfully
