
Subject:Impact of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) – Interim Particulars
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letter ref: (1) that served to notify of you of the delays attributable to the damage to
Basement levels LB2 and LB1 caused by the flooding suffered during the severe rainstorms occurring in
mid-January 2020. This caused us to write to the affected suppliers and subcontractors in order to gain
an indication of the extent of damaged materials and equipment. We have since issued letter ref: (2)
providing an initial notification associated with the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic
and the ramifications this will have on our supply chain; the impact of which will not only have a direct
bearing on the matters subject to letter ref: (1) but the whole of the MTB Project.
It is with this in mind that we write to you. With the pandemic continuing to spread around the World
at an alarming rate, and numerous countries, including the UAE imposing severe restrictions on flights,
travel and social interaction amongst others, we are compelled to provide you with a set of interim
particulars in order to appraise you as to how our suppliers and subcontractors and this Project is being
materially affected by the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
Therefore the particulars provided in Annex A provides you with an initial interim assessment of the
feedback we have so far been able to obtain from some of our subcontractors, to gauge the extent to
which the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is affecting them and how this is impacting the Works.
Additionally, we also bring your attention to the recent imposition of a major restriction to the Works
notified to us on 19 March 2020, where, due to travel restrictions imposed by the UAE Government, the
South Airside (Apron/PQC area) from Gatehouse GH45 to GH29 is to be utilized as a parking space for
aircraft. Therefore, all Works are effectively suspended to the PQC/Apron area, and we and our
subcontractors have been instructed to clear the area of any and all equipment and materials.
We further advise that according to a bulletin issued today by Emirates News Agency (WAM), the UAE
government has called upon the public to stay at home unless it is absolutely necessary. It remains to be
seen how this is likely to impact the Project. We will write to you separately on this.
In summary, the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is having a detrimental and sustained impact and is
severely delaying and disrupting the Works. This will critically delay the Time for Completion.
We find ourselves in an unprecedented situation; the circumstances of which are entirely outside our
control and completely fluid; the situation is unknown and changes rapidly and therefore it is difficult to
predict when the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic will lessen and eventually cease. We
will nevertheless, continue to monitor the situation and keep you informed as matters develop.
ANNEX A
Impact of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) – Interim Particulars
The following provides an initial overview of feedback from some of our subcontractors of the extent to
which the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic is affecting their progress and impacting the Works.
Impact on Façade Glass (JANGHO)
The following represents extracts from Jangho’s letter dated 28 February 2020 (ref: JHE-ADIA-TCAJV-PH2185)] notifying of delays to completion of the replacement glass to the Project [copy attached at Annex
A3 hereto]:
‘The impact of the coronavirus within the Middle East region cannot be underestimated. We are
working hard to navigate the impact of this virus and minimise the impact on MTB with regard to
delivery of additional glass materials.
Despite these efforts, the impact on work force and supply chain continues to be detrimental to
progress on site. Many of our construction professionals and site workers were on vacation In China
celebrating Chinese New Year when the outbreak occurred.
As a precaution, mainland China implemented certain safety measures prohibiting outbound travel,
meaning these workers are unable to return to the UAE and continue work.

There are two ways in which the coronavirus is likely to impact on the operational activities of J&H
operation on MTB project:
•
The central government and municipal governments in China had extended the period of the
Spring Festival Holidays. This had directly Impacted on the ability of the ·supply chain, providing material
in the UAE, due to unavailability of labour and resources. In the factories. Logistics have been impacted
and factory output has been reduced. It has meant material and equipment suppliers have been unable
to meet their obligations. This in turn may adversely impact delivery of additional glass material on the
site. As a ·result, the ·production and movement of materials will be disrupted and delayed …’
•
The indirect impact arising from Chinese and UAE government efforts to contain the virus. For
example, a ban might be put in place at a port in UAE on the. unloading of materials shipped from China
(not confirmed yet). This will have a major impact on the ability of J&H to carry out the replacement of
broken glass and complete the Works under the Subcontract.’
We assure you that we will do everything we can to minimize the impact on the Project. However, at the
moment it is difficult to predict when the impact of the coronavirus will cases as little sign of an
immediate cure moment, there remains a significant risk of further delays and cost overruns.’
Impact on Material Procurement from Overseas
With the above in mind, we herewith provide the following summation of the quantities of the various
subcontractor materials supplied from overseas currently impacted by the Coronavirus pandemic:
1.
Al Ghurair glass (broken glass to be replaced): 62 pieces from China;
2.
Sun Glass (Feature Stair Glass): 4 glass pieces from Italy;
3.
Jangho glass (broken glass to be replaced): 50 pieces from China;
4.
External Works – Pebbles supplied by Deemah for water features: 270 m2 from China; and
5.
OTIS - Rectification/Replacement Works for the LB.2 Flood Impacted Units:
a.
Escalator 05-59/60 and Travellator 05-06;
b.
ELV 05-27/28/111 – parts to come from the OTIS Factory in Spain (factory suppliers in Europe);
and
c.
ELV 05-31/32, 17/18, 84/85, 86/87, 09/10/11/63, 12/13/14/15, 04 – parts to come from the
OTIS Factory in Turkey (factory suppliers in Europe).
In respect of item 2, we refer to a letter from Sunglass dated 23 March 2019 [copy attached at Annex A4
hereto] informing us that in accordance with the recent Ministerial Decree relating to the COVID-19
‘emergency’, all of its offices and production will be closed until 3 April 2020. That said, Sunglass advised
that during this period, it would be available via “smart working” during the mornings only.
Impact on Procurement of Electrical Materials (ANEL)
Attached is a schedule issued by Anel listing all of the Electrical materials and equipment sourced from
various countries overseas that is also being impacted by the Coronavirus (COVID-10) pandemic [refer to
Annex A5].
The various countries of origin from which the material and equipment are procured includes:
1.
USA
2.
Germany
3.
UK
4.
Italy
5.
France
Impact on Floor Finishes
The various materials that are likely to be affected by COVID-19 are as follows:
1.
ONYX stone by Deemah stone from China
2.
Cobble stone by Deemah stone from China
3.
Creama Mavel stone by Deemah from Portugal
4.
Carpet by Executors from USA

5.
Resilient sheets by ASP from Germany
Impact on Procurement of CIPP Lining (Subsidence Remediation)
We have also been notified by Applus Velosi of the following matters associated with the subsidence
remediation as recorded in their e-mail dated 4 March 2020 [10:51 AM] [copy atached at Annex A6
hereto]:
‘The shipment [of the 14 additional liners] has been collected from the source however we have
received a message from our logistic agent stating that due to the outbreak of COVD19 the flights are
been rescheduled or canceled for larger capacity shipments and priority is given to medical shipments.
We are following up with the agent and shall keep you updated on the status of the shipment.’
Impact on Automatic Tray Return System (ATRS)
The following information provided by MacDonald Humfrey (‘MHA’) by e-mail on 22 March 2020 [2.16
PM] represents an overview of the ‘projected Covid-19 affected activities’ (Table 1 refers):
Table 1
Item COVID Impacted Item Reason for Impact
Comments
1
Performance Test (PT) in April [2020] including the verified closure of CIR Comments during PT
as agreed with CXA.
Manpower resource
MHA Installation team currently unable to return to
UAE due to travel restrictions. May also face quarantine and other unknown restrictions.
MHA Contracted manpower supplier may be unable to provide necessary installation supervisors to
support PT.
JV may be unable to provide manpower to support PT
2
Operator and Supervisor Training
Manpower resource
Travel restrictions for the
trainer and other unknown restrictions.
3
Variations
Manpower resource
MHA Installation team may be unable to return to UAE
due to travel restrictions. May also face quarantine and other unknown restrictions.
MHA Contracted manpower supplier may be unable to provide necessary installation supervisors to
support PT
Impact on Airport Operational Systems (SITA)
The following information was provided by SITA by e-mail dated 22 March 2020 [3.36 PM] and
represents an overview of the impact that COVID-19 is having on the Airport Operational Systems:
“Impacted to Date:
1.
Performance Test Preparations are in Jeopardy. The Resources mobilization from different
Countries is Stopped. Already issued Visas are blocked and new Visa are not being issued from UAE
Govt.
2.
Training are cancelled from ADAC for 4 weeks.
3.
Day to day tasks (Coordination, Workshops, Report Testing, etc.) are disrupted / rescheduled
due unavailability of stakeholders.
4.
Self-Isolation of the employees who arrived in UAE from different countries, causing disruption
of on-going activities.
5.
As a precautionary measure of Social Distances, Work From Home (WFH) is encouraging in the
SITA which is also interrupting day to day task and slowing down the progress. However project team is
still on-site so that we don’t impact schedule
Impact in Future:
1.
SITA’s Employee Health is at risk although we are taking all the precautionary measures.
2.
Planned Testing and commissioning activities may be impacted
3.
Procurement of the material (HHT, LED Matrix floor Mount, Construction Accessories, etc.) will
be impacted…

… Consequently, Substantial Completion of the works will be delayed which will have cost impact on
SITA and its subcontractors.”
While in a subsequent e-mail dated 23 March 2020 [2:41 PM], SITA informed us of the following matters
in relation to the ‘SITA performance team availability’ [copy attached at Annex A7]:
‘The PSE team was supposed to be onsite starting 22nd March however, their visa were cancelled.
Alternatively, we have requested (and Sachin has raised the relevant SCR) remote access for the team to
the relevant Load Generator VMs and Servers. This will help the team to start preparing the test scripts
and required installations.
However, for the next set of activities – Internal Testing – we will need the team to onsite. This will be
very difficult to manage remotely. These activities are planned to start from 3rd week of April. If the
current situation revolving around the travelling bans and visa issuance continues till the 09th April, the
project plan will be impacted.’
Impact on Airport Security Systems (ATLAS)
The following information was provided by ATLAS Security by e-mail dated 9 March 2020 [8.39 AM] and
represents an overview of the impact that COVID-19 is having on the Airport Security Systems:
•
“Vendors onsite meetings and technical interventions have been cancelled.
This may result in a delay on the activities which requires the involvement on-site of vendor’s specialist
for products configuration / troubleshooting.
We have Kaba, for the configuration of the SOC door, CNL and Genetec for the PT closure, potentially
Track-IT for BLTS when current site constraints on remaining batch of portals will be cleared.
•
Few people on leave already out of the country on the date we announced the cancellation of
any pre-approved leave.
They return to UAE may be delayed as minimum 14 days (quarantine) or more.
Minimum impact as not key personnel.
•
Last but not least, people’s mood.
Hard to admit, but reasonably likely, at all levels and with different degrees, people are worried about
themselves and their families overseas.
Productivity and the quality of their deliverables may be affected by lack of focus.”
Impact on Training
Please find attached a detailed list of trainers from the following subcontractors that include persons
that have been or are likely to be affected by travel restrictions [refer to Annex A8]:
1.
COX
2.
OTIS
3.
Atlas
4.
Rimal
5.
Anel
6.
PCE JV
7.
Sita
8.
Smiths Detection
9.
Bond
10.
Crisplant
11.
MacDonald Humfrey
12.
Falcon Eye
13.
Giffin
14.
Ferco
15.
Prometal
Impact on BHS Standalone Trials

We have also received an e-mail today i.e. 23 March 2020 [08:42 AM] from ADAC – Head of Baggage
Handling Services notifying us of the following impact on the BHS trials [copy attached at Annex A9]:
‘… we feel it is in the best interest of everyone that we postpone the standalone BHS trial on the 24th
March 23, 2020. We will also reschedule all of the upcoming trials and send you the update in the
coming weeks.
Yours faithfully,
