Subject Notice of Claim- Damages to Pier Facade Steel
Dear Sir,
Please find attached letter reference (1) wherein the Other Subcontractor J&H Emirates LLC (J&H)
provides
further details in respect of the alleged damages caused by the Subcontractor to the pier fa<;:ade steel.

Moreover, in its letter reference (1) J&H also rebuts the content of the Subcontractor's letter reference
(2)
and states that the Subcontractor failed to take reasonable precatory measures to avoid the damages.
Whilst notifying the Subcontractor of a possible event giving rise to a claim under the provisions of
Clause
10.3 [Contractor Claims] and Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the
Conditions of
Subcontract, the Contractor requests the Subcontractor provides its comments (if any) in relation to this
incident.
Subject: Precautionary Order from the Abu Dhabi Court to Withhold Payments due to
Dear Sir,
Pertaining to the above subject matter and further to letter references (2) and (3), please be informed
that the Contractor is in receipt of the attached Precautionary Order from the Abu Dhabi Court to
withhold payment of AED 11,911,956.34 from amounts due to J&H Emirates (Interdicted/Defendant).
Accordingly, and in compliance with the aforementioned Court Order, please be advised that the
Contractor will withhold payment of AED 11,911,956.34 from amounts due to J&H Emirates until such
time as the Contractor receives confirmation from the Abu Dhabi Court that the Precautionary Order
either remains in force or has lapsed and until such time as the Contractor receives further instructions
from the Abu Dhabi Court in respect of payment of such sums.
This is for the Subcontractor's information and record.
Subject: Handed Over MEP Services (AMC Serving and Passing Through MEP Services)
Damaged/Removed by Other Contractors
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes with reference to the above subject to notify the Engineer that, the handed over
serving and passing through MEP services at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, have been
damaged and/or removed by the AMC contractor {please refer to the enclosed Site photos).
The serving and passing though MEP services in the aforementioned area have been installed, inspected
and handed over to the Employer through WIR procedure. As such, the Contractor shall not be
responsible for the protection of those services·and we request the Engineer to take necessary actions
to
prevent any further damages to, and/or unauthorised removal of, handed over MEP services by Other
Contractors.
Moreover, should the Engineer and/ or the Employer require the Contractor to re-install and re-test the
serving and passing through MEP at AMC Room-214 in Office Building Level 3.1, we request the Engineer
to issue an Engineer's instruction pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 [Instructions of the Engineer] and
20.1.1
{a) [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract, and to provide a formal confirmation of Variation, in
accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4. (b) of the Conditions of Contract.

Yours faithfully,
