
Subject: Notice to Refrain for Subcontractor Direct Communication to Employer/Engineer
Dear Sirs,
In reference to the above mentioned subject we hereby advise the Subcontractor/s to diligently
follow the Project Protocol in regards to the flow of documents and communication concerning
the above mentioned project.
Pursuant to Sub Clause 9.18.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract embodied in the above
mentioned Letter of award "The Subcontractor shall act as an independent contractor in
performing the Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its employees and all
Subsubcontractors
and shall in no case represent, or be the agent of, the Contractor or act in the
Contractor's name without the prior written consent of the Contractor."
As in line with the above mentioned conditions, you are instructed to refrain for any direct
communication to the Employer/Engineer regarding any project related matters. Any
subcontractor's procedure for acquiring contract documents clarification, approvals, etc. must all
be submitted to the Main Contractor only.
If the Subcontractor fails to conform to the above provisions of the Subcontract, the Contractor
may require the Subcontractor to remove (or cause to be removed) any key personnel or any
other person employed on the Site or Subcontract Works, including the Subcontractor's
Representative if applicable Pursuant to sub-clause 14.9 .3 of the aforementioned Conditions of
subcontract.
Moreover, we hereby hold the Subcontractor liable for any cost and I or time impact that is
incurred by the Main Contractor due to these direct communications of the Subcontractor with
the Employer/Engineer.
Please be guided accordingly.
Subject :
Notice of Backcharge – Cementitious Fireproofing Works - (South Retail Cabins Level 3.1
and Central Pavilion Level 3.1)
Dear Sir,

We write with reference to the aforementioned subject due to your delays in various areas which has a
direct impact on the fire proofing works that is within your scope of works.
Therefore, due to the urgency of the matter and your failure to start the fireproofing applications, we
have arranged specialist applicator(s) to carry out the Cementitious Fireproofing application in South
Retail Cabins Level 3.1 and Central Pavilion Level 3.1.
This notice has been issued pursuant to Conditions of Subcontract clauses including but not limited to
10.3.3 and 10.3.1 due to your failure to start the Cementitious Fireproofing Works despite our
continuous reminders and notifications that have been sent to you.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you to back charge for the above works including as well as any relevant
activity from your account. Such amount as well as our 15% administrative fee and overhead that shall
be deducted from your payment upon receipt of the complete fireproofing application cost.
Moreover, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities shall be solely
your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 and 16.6.1.
This is for your information and future reference.

Yours faithfully,
