Contract Abbreviations
Airport Management Centre (AMC)
Airport Operational Systems (AOS)
Acceptance Test Protocol / Authority To Proceed (ATP)
Baggage Handling System (BHS)
Baggage Handling Control Room (BHCR)
Baggage Information Display System (BIDS)
Baggage Labeling and Tracking System (BLTS)
Baggage Reconciliation System (BRS)
Boarding & Disembarkation Route Management (BDRM)
Building Management System (BMS)
Building Completion Certificate (BCC)
Common Use Passenger Processing (CUPPS)
Configuration Status Accounting (CSA)
Configuration Items (CI)
Commissioning Inspection Request (CIR)
Departure Control System (DCS)
Departure Access Structure (DAS)
Document Object Model (DOM)
Extra Low Voltage (ELV)
Final Distribution Boards (FDB)
Fire Alarm System (FAS)
Fixed Ground Power (FGP)
Flight Information Display System (FIDS)
Fire Smoke Damper (FSD)
Hold Baggage Screening System (HBSS)
High Level Design (HLD)
Initial Site Acceptance Test (ISAT)
Integrated test facility (ITF)
Information and Communication Technology ('ICT')

Internal Long Spam Structure (ILSS)
IVT (Interface Verification Test)
Lighting Control System (LCS)
Lift Elevator Travelator (LET)
Local Area Network (LAN)
Lock Out Tag Out (LOTO)
Low Level Design (LLD)
Network Management Systems (NMS)
Non-Operational Trial Period (NOTP)
Notice of Intent (NOI)
Master System Integration (MSI)
Master Antenna Television System (MATV)
Mechanical Works Completion Inspection (MCI)
Operational Readiness & Airport Transition (ORAT)
Passenger Boarding Bridge (PBB)
Preconditioned Air (PCA)
Performance Testing (PT)
Public Address Voice Alarm System (PAVA)
Round-trip time (RTT)
Round-trip delay time (RTD)
Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
Security Access Control System (SACS)
Standalone Functional Acceptance Test (SFAT)
Standalone Functional Acceptance Test Procedure (SFATP)
Traveler Document Authentication System (TDAS)
Test Inspection Requests (TIRs)
Virtual routing and forwarding (VRF)
Visual Docking Guidance System (VDGS)
Video Surveillance System (VSS)
l. (AAA) - Authentication, Authorization and Accounting
2. (ADAC) - Abu Dhabi Airport Company
3. (ADIA) - Abu Dhabi International Airport
4. (ANSI) - American National Standards Institute
5. (ASCII) - American Standard Code for lnformation Interchange
6. (ATM) - A-synchrone Transfer Message
7. (BMS) - Building Management System
8. (BSI) - British Standards Institute
9. (BMS) - Building Management System
10. (CMS) - Cable Management System
I l. (CPU) - Central Processing Unit
12. (CV) - Curriculum Vitae
13. (DDS) - Detailed Design Specification
14. (DHCP) - Dynamic Host Configuration Protoco15. (DHHS) - Department of Health and Human Services
16. (DLP) - Defects Liability Period
17. (DNS) - Domain Name Servers
18. (EDP) - Electronic Data Processing

19. (FCC) - Federal Communications Commission
20. (GUI) - Graphical User Interface
21. (HTTP) - Hypertext Transfer Protocol
22. (ICD) - Interface Control Document
23. (IEC) - International Electro technical Commission
24. (tree) - Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
25. (IP) - Internet Protocol
26. (IPS) - Intrusion Prevention System
27. (ISO) - International Standard Organization
28. (ITIL) - Information Technology Infrastructure Library
29. (ITS) - Information Technology System
30. (LAN) - Locdl Area Network
31. (LCD) - Liqdid Crystal Display
32. (LDAP) - Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
33. (MAC) - Media Access Control
34. (MCR) - Main Communication Room
35. (MPLS) - Multi-protocol Label Switching
36. (MTBF) - Mean Time Between Failures
37. (MTB) - Midfield Terminal Building
38. (MTC) - Midfield Terminal Complex
39. (MTTR) - Mean Time To Repair
40. (NAC)- Network Access Control
41. (NAT) - Network Address Translation
42. (NEC) - National Electrical Code
43. (NFPA) - National Fire Protection Association
44. (NIC) - Nerwork Interlace Card
45: (NMS) - Network Management System
46. (NRTL) – Nationally Recognized Testing Labarotory
47. (NTP) – Network Time Protocol
48. (O/S) – Operating System
49. (OSHA) - Occupational Safety and Health Administration
50. (ORAT) - Operational Readiness and Transfer
51. (PMI) - Project Management Institute
52. (QoS) - Quality of Service
53. (RAID) - Redundant Array of Inexpensive (or Independent) Disks
54. (SLA) - Service Level Agreement
55. (SMP) - Symmetric Multi-Processing
56. (SNMP) - Simple Network Management Protocol
57. (TC) - Telecommunications Cabinet
58. (TCP/P) - Transport control protocoVlnternet protocol
59. (TFTP) - Trivial File Transfer Protocol
60. (UL) - Underwriters Laboratories
61. (UPS) - Unintemrpted Power Supply
62. (VLAN) - Virtual LAN
63. (VPN) - Virtual Private Network
64. (WAN) - Wide Area Network
65. (WIFI) -WirelessFidelity(similartoWLAN)
66. (WLAN) - Wireless LAN

Subject:Delay in Lighting Fixtures Installation and Lighting Control System Commissioning
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your letter (1) in which you advise us of alleged delays pertaining to the
Lighting Fixtures Installations and Lighting Control System Commissioning. We therefore take the
opportunity in addressing similar allegations outlined in your letter (ref: 2) within this response also.
Although we acknowledge the contents of both letters ref: (1) and (2), and remain fully committed to
progressing the installation of the Lighting Fixtures and Lighting Control System Commissioning as
expeditiously as possible, we are compelled to advise you of various factors that have contributed to
both delaying and disrupting our progress that are out with our reasonable control and responsibility.
Firstly, as you are only too aware, there is a disparity between the IFC electrical design and the works we
have constructed according to that IFC design, and the electrical design that ADDC inspector are
excepting when undertaking inspections during the Form 4 approval process, and accordingly are
expecting us to undertake last minute design changes to ensure the electrical installations are code
compliant. We have previously written to you on this matter on various occasions, including inter alia
our letter (3) which includes a copy of the agreement between ADAC and ADDC the responsibility of
design compliance with ADWR 2009 remains with you and we shall follow IFC Drawings for the electrical
installations. We shall not be responsible for comments from the ADDC inspection Engineer against any
design non-compliance with ADWR 2009, ADWR 2014 or ADDC preferential requirements for the
electrical installations during Stage 3 and 4 of ADDC inspection and approval process.
Secondly, the haphazard manner in which ADDC inspectors have been reviewing and approving the Case
ID submissions has created unplanned and unexpected delays, outside of our control. An example of
this is where multiple Case IDs are grouped and submitted together where all but one of the Case IDs
were approved one was rejected.
Although we acknowledge that you have assisted the Case ID approval process, and liaised with ADDC in
improving the process by resubmitting the panels excluding the rejected one, ADDC have expressly
requested that we have to resubmit the approved Case IDs a second time without the rejected one,
whilst we address ADDC’s comments for the rejected one. Thus the approved panels in that Case ID
have to be resubmitted one more time in order to get acceptance officially which has imposed an
unwarranted time delay simply due to a procedural matter. We were therefore left to accommodate a
frustrating procedure that unnecessarily created a duplication of efforts for many of the Case ID
approvals and in many instances where Case IDs are being rejected by ADDC due to design related issues
for which we are not responsible. As a result, the lost time cannot be recovered in full.
In many instances, as a direct and consequential effect of the above factors, the initial rejection of an
individual Case ID has impacted the approval process by as much as one calendar month. Consequently,
the commissioning period has been drastically reduced due to the lost time associated with the Case ID
approval process. Nevertheless, we have endeavoured to recover lost time, as well as continue to use
our best endeavours to complete the Works as soon as practicable. For example, during May 2019 we
doubled our Electrical Panel Commissioning Team from 20 teams to 40 and from mid-June 2019
onwards, we will increase to 40 to 60 teams. In addition, we are assisting our electrical Subcontractors’
DB Commissioning Team, increasing the numbers to 80 teams.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing our
obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, but will not
be held responsible for factors that are beyond our reasonable control and responsibility. .
Yours faithfully,
