
Dear Sir,
Following various discussions regarding the delay to the works at Qatar National Museum caused by the
delayed removal of the ramp, lack of formwork and manpower.

Attached please find two progress photos dated 12 August 2015 associated with ramp progress and
taken from the West & East side that clearly show some considerable amount of excavation and disposal
material yet to be done.

The removal of the ramp was first planned to be completed by 14 April 2015.When this date failed then
several revised dates were given by the Contractor. All of which have failed to be achieved.The latest
planned date given by the Contractor is 25 August 2015.

Contractor 's delay in removing the ramp is due to insufficient equipment being mobilized by the
Contractor and, in addition, ineffective utilization of the available equipment on site. These have been
addressed in several meetings and email correspondences between the site staff.

Please note the current status with regards to the ramp removal as of 12 August 2015 is:

1.

Remaining quantity to be removed:( Approx. 2727cum)

2.
Average daily excavation/disposal rate: Since only one crane is disposing the ramp excavated
rocks, the daily rate of disposal is only 252 cum/day.
3.
Available equipment and number of shifts per equipment: 2 breakers, 3 buckets and one skip 18
T with one crane.

The constructions of the base slabs are also delayed due to the lack of design, which the Contractor has
indicated is due to the SPS/TPS room location.The Contractor should note that the Engineers Assistant
has always maintained that the Employers Requirements with regards to the location of the TPS/SPS
rooms will not be relaxed and the fact that the Contractor did not comply with these requirements is a
delay that has been exacerbated by the Contractor himself.

Although the designs and shop drawings for the A 1 and A2 external walls were issued, Contractor, due
to the lack of formwork and man power, was unable to commence with the construction of these walls.
Again this is another Contractor delay brought about by poor management and implementation of
material and resources ..

The Contractor is urged to take the required actions to mitigate these ongoing delays at Qatar National
Museum and to proceed with the works in due diligence to ensure earliest completion
Yours faithfully,
