Subject The Contractor Presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
Following the Contractor Presentation of 'concurrent delay' made to the Employer and the Engineer
on Wednesday 18 January 2017 we wish to record the following points ahead of any formal
submission by the Contractor.
The Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology outlined at the meeting is not accepted by
the Engineer due to the following:
a. The Contractor's Methodology is unnecessarily complicated compared to the traditional and
widely recognized Window analysis technique and it does not conform to any recognized method
of delay analysis by any practice such as the SCL or AACE International.
b. It was not made clear by the Contractor why it is necessary to extract the data from Primavera to
MS Excel and then to MS Access and then back to Primavera. Primavera is the approved
programming software and is capable of performing all the required analysis. It is the Engineer's
opinion that this chosen approach by the Contractor unnecessarily increases the risk of errors
occurring and confuses the analysis.
c. The Contractor has introduced new Milestones and Constraints to the baseline programme for
the CSP and Piers without the approval from the Engineer. Contractually this is non-compliant
and currently not accepted.
d. The Contractor has deleted many activities without the agreement and approval of the Engineer,
again this is contractually non-compliant and currently not accepted.
e. The Contractor has disregarded the Contractor delays that exist in and evidenced within the
records of correspondences / minutes of meetings etc.
f. The Contractor stated "there are some concurrent delays" but failed to demonstrate how this
was calculated and did not provide an explanation why the concurrency analysis, which is
required as part of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized.
g. The Contractors independent third party expert appears to have simply agreed with the
Contractors analysis and has not submitted an independent report on the matter of Concurrency.
Further to the meeting and in regard to the Contractor's CDA Submission date 27 August 2015, the
contention of the Contractor stated in Para 5.28 and 5.29 that;
''The results of the analysis for each delay event in each monthly delay analysis period are
classified into 3 categories. This will, the Contractor hopes~ assist the Engineer to reach a
speedy determination of the financial implications of the delays to section of the Work",
[emphasis addedt does not provide any such assistance whatsoever to the Engineer due to the
fact that the Contractor has failed to demonstrate any 'culpable delay' or 'unallocated delay' as
asserted, in its CDA submission.
We trust this is a true and accurate record of the presentation and we note for record purposes that

the new approach adopted by the Contractor in this presentation to evidence the existence or not of
any concurrent delays differs significantly from the previous approach adopted in the previously
submitted Consolidated Delay Analyses where no concurrent delays due to the Contractor have been
evidenced and is contrary to the current approach the Contractor has presented in identifying
areas/periods during the course of the Works where the Contractor was culpable for some of the
delays. Although the above points will need to be addressed, the Engineer welcomes the principle of
admitting the Contractor own delays within the analysis which is what is required under the Contract
and as a pre-requisite before any compensation can be finalized . This presentation supports the
Engineer's stand that all previously submitted CDAs are not in compliance with the Contract
requirements.
Yours faithfully,
