Subject: Non Payment of Sub-Subcontractor and Subsequent Intervention ofTCAJV
Dear Sir,
Despite the issuance of our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJVILI003348 dated 16th May 2016 pertaining
to outstanding payments to your domestic Subcontractor Wadi AI Jarf Tech Cont (Labour Suppler), you
have failed to comply with our instruction to make payment and confirm the same by COB 18th May
2016.
As stated within our Letter Reference MTBITCA/PCEJV ILI003348 dated 16th May 2016 the dispute itself
has nothing to do with TCA from a contractual perspective however we have a duty under the Contract
to carry out I apply due diligence with regards to Sub-Contractor payments to their Sub-Subcontractors.
We have within our previous letter on the subject matter already made reference to Clause 21.3 of the
Subcontract Agreement between us, with the same in summary detailing our contractual right with
either the withholding of such due amounts or that of the payment of such due sums to your domestic
subcontractor.
We have been approached yet again by domestic subcontractor Wadi AI Jarf Cont on this issue who
have confirmed that no payment has been forthcoming from you. For clarity, the outstanding amount
in this regard is AED 1,384,885.75 (One Million, Three and Eighty Four Thousand, Eight Hundred and
Eighty Five Dirhams and Seventy Five Fills)
As stated I intimated within our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJV ILI003348 dated 16th May 2016, you
were instructed to bring this dispute to an end by COB on 18th May 2016 From the information
currently in our possession it is abundantly clear that you have not done this and have no intention to.
In accordance with Clause 21.3 of our Subcontract Agreement please take this letter as formal
notification of our intention to exercise our right to pay the amount of AED 1,384,885.75 directly to
Wadi AI Jarf Cant on your behalf with the same being recovered from your account by way of deduction
I Set-off in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) and Clause 21.3 (Payments to
Sub-Subcontractors). The same will be subject to our standard Administration I Overhead & Profit

entitlements of 15%. In addition to the aforementioned, despite our formal request for 'Financial
Disclosure Statements' the
same has not been forthcoming. This is a contractual obligation under the Subcontract Agreement and
again it has become abundantly clear that our formal requests are repeatedly ignored. The issue is
compounded further in that your failure to provide the same will be discovered in any project audit
which could result in late payment and/or penalties issued by the Employer.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory however if you seek further clarification
regarding the same, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully
