Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant instructed the Contractor,
pursuant to Sub-Clause 8.8.1of the General Conditions of Contract, to suspend the design work for Al
Rayyan Station and the alignment of Tunnel Sections between Al Rayyan to Doha Zoo and Al Rayyan to
Muaither Stations.

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of the Engineer's Instruction No.126 and hereby confirms that the
above mentioned design work was suspended as instructed.

However, during the Engineer's Assistant's audit of 01 March 2016 to assess the progress status of these
designs, it was suggested by members of the Engineer's Assistant's staff that the Contractor should
continue with the outstanding AGI works for these Sections since the revised location of Al Rayyan
Station is not expected to render these works redundant.

The Contractor requested confirmation of the above (via email) from the Engineer's Assistant's Senior
Geotechnical Engineer (Mr. Andres Pinto). Unfortunately, Mr. Pinto's response was a non-proactive and
irrelevant statement that "GFR and GIR shall be compliant with Employer 's Requirements. These reports
shall be submitted for SONO, once the final location of the Station is frozen."

On the other hand, the Engineer's Assistant's Senior Structural I Station Engineer's (Mr. Bruce Pucknell)
intervention provided a reasonable response to the Contractor's request stating "As discussed this
morning, I would complete the current on-going ground investigation works. However, I would not
complete the GFR and GIR. I will record the status of the current design as such. When the station
location is fixed the adequacy of the existing information can be assessed. If more investigations are
required then this can be included in the instruction to recommence the design. So the best case
scenario is that no further GI will be required and you can proceed immediately with the GFR and GIR
and the worst case scenario is you will be instructed to do more GI work due to the station re-location in
order to complete the GFR and GIR. In both scenarios there is no risk to the JV. "

While recording its dissatisfaction to the Engineer's Assistant's Senior Geotechnical Engineer's approach,
the Contractor concurs with the Engineer's Assistant's Senior Structural I Station Engineer's opinion.
However, in order to avoid any future disagreements on the way forward, the Engineer's Assistant is
hereby kindly requested to advise whether the Contractor should complete the outstanding AGI works
or suspend until further notice.
Yours faithfully,
