Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above subject and further to our numerous correspondences
including, but not limited to, our letters referred to above whereby we expressed our concerns
regarding your poor performance and progress, lack of coordination and planning, lack of
manpower and machinery, non-conformance of the Works, lack of supervision and management,
and on-going delays in Engineering Works , including design, Mockups, Material and Shop
Drawing Submittals, BIM deliverabies, planning and coordination, deliveries to the Site, failure to
raise RFI's and respond to the Engineering Bulletins timely which included changes having time
and/or cost impacts and therefore jeopardizing our recovery of the same.
Moreover, due to your failure in achieving your planned dates you kept modifying and shifting
your commitments which you failed to achieve again leading to many unresolved, pending issues
resuiting in an alarming delay in the Project Completion Date.
Any costs , losses and/or expenses incurred by TCAJV and/or other Subcontractors in connection
with your delays to the Works and your failure to fulfill your obligations under the Subcontract
shall be recovered in accordance with the Subcontract's Terms and Conditions.
Furthermore, we have previously requested you to increase your manpower to maintain the
required Works progress on Site and mitigate your delays in accordance with Subcontract Clause
8.1.2. By way of examples, our letter dated 28 August 2014 (ref:MTBfTCAlCHADWICKlU000114)
regarding your delays in Pier 1, 2, 3 and 4 roofing works stated that the reasons for your slow
progress included lack of manpower which you had previously been instructed to increase but
failed to do and lack of machinery. Our letter dated 28 September 2014 (ref:
MTBfTCA/CHADWICKlU000141) regarding your delay in the commencement of the roof
installation to Pier 1 and 4 and Gatehouses, slow progress of roofing activities on Pier 1, 2 and 3,
failure to commence Pier 4 and lack of manpower for the roofing works requested you to address
all above issues immediately. However, to date you have failed to provide any additional

workforce on Site.
Subcontract Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] sets out your obligations, inter alia, as:
"8.1.2 The Subcontractor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that it completes the Subcontract
Works, and each and every part of the Subcontract Works, in such manner and in such time so as to
allow the Contractor to comply with any obligations under the Contract and meet any deadlines in
relation to the Project which are notified to the Subcontractor from time to time. The Subcontractor
shall neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of the Contractor or other subcontractors. The
Subcontractor, without additional compensation, shall vary the sequence of its Works as the Contractor
may reasonably instruct. The Subcontractor shall conform to the Contractor's hours of work. The
Subcontractor shall promptly increase its work force or other resources, accelerate its performance,
work overtime, Fridays and holidays, all without additional compensation, as necessary to maintain
progress o.f the Subcontract Works. ",
Accordingly, despite you are obliged to (and our previous advice in this regard) increase your
work force and other resources necessary to maintain your progress of the Subcontract Works, to
date you have failed to do so.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3.3 and
16.4.1(b) to submit, within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter, a recovery program wlth
supporting report detailing how the above delay events will be mitigated including any increase in
your resources. Without prejudice to our other rights and entitlements that may arise under the
Subcontract, we hereby inform that your failure to do so shall result in us supplying the necessary
additional manpower to you, at your cost, which shall be back-charged to your account.
Your immediate action in this matter is anticipated.
Yours faithfully,
