Subject Subcontractor's Variations- Additional Design Fees
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to its letters (1) and (2) wherein the Subcontractor was requested to separate and
provide further substantiation in respect of the additional design fees claimed in its requests for
Variation
Orders. Despite this having been requested a while ago, the Contractor has not yet received a separate
submission which provides sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the claimed additional design fees.
The Contractor reiterates the request, made via the abovementioned correspondence, numerous
meetings and query sheets, that at least the following information is provided:
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in the rates of the Bill of
Quantities. This explanation shall clearly identify both the engineering services which, in the
Subcontractor's opinion, are included in the Subcontract rates and the engineering cost that cannot
be recovered by using such rates.
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in any other item of the
Subcontractor's Variation or claim submissions. The Subcontractor shall clarify that this engineering
cost is not being claimed I recovered through preliminaries, acceleration, etc.
Detailed explanation on why the engineering cost has increased.
Detailed particulars of the design deliverable in question that allegedly got aborted prior to its
submission, i.e. for each case provide a timeline, evidence of the incomplete shop drawing I design
calculation etc.
Detailed demonstration that through the 'additional design fee' the Subcontractor is not recovering
abortive design costs associated to engineering errors made by the Subcontractor. Further, the
Subcontractor shall also prove that the 'additional design fee' does not relate to engineering costs
associated to the Subcontractor's base scope of works.
Detailed design cost presentation to the Engineer and the Employer explaining the above.
To be clear, the Subcontractor shall clarify the above listed points whilst providing all necessary
substantiation, i.e. timesheets of hours actually expended, transmittals made when the design was
aborted etc. Please note that since submitting its commercial proposals, the Subcontractor has not
provided the documents required to 'back up' the additional engineering resources claimed. There is no
reason why the Subcontractor has not provided this supporting information thus exacerbating the
Contractor's inability to assess the Subcontractor's entitlement to the 'additional design fee'. Hence, the
Subject: Defects liability Period (DLP) 0 &M Services
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Engineer's letters (1) and (2), and responds as follows:
The purpose of this letter is to seek the Engineer's cooperation to finally resolve the ongoing matter of
the

provision of the DLP O&M Services, in accordance with clause 28.1 of the Contract. As the Engineer will
no
doubt agree, this matter has been the subject of discussions for a lengthy duration and it is in all Parties
interests for the matter to be resolved quickly.
By way of reminder, the Engineer initially gave conditional approval for the appointment of Gemma SpA
("Gemma") as the Subcontractor to carry out the DLP O&M services. As the Engineer is aware, despite
extensive efforts on the part of the Contractor, it has not been possible for the Contractor to obtain
Gemma's agreement to the additional condition insisted upon by the Engineer. In this regard, we
acknowledge the recent withdrawal of the conditional approval of Gemma by the Engineer in its letter
ref
(2L on the grounds that Gemma has failed to provide it with a "letter of commitment confirming Gemmo
will be fully involved in the installation process of all specialist systems" and that "the TCA-JV will obtain
Gemma's approval/acceptance of all relevant shop drawings".
Notwithstanding the submission by the Contractor of the prequalification documents of Gemmo, and for
the avoidance of any doubt, the Contractor emphasises that the Contract places no obligation on the
Contractor to appoint a specialist subcontractor to carry out the DLP O&M Services. The Contractor also
believes it is confusing for the Engineer to use the terminology of "independent FM Company" as there
is
no reference or requirement under the Contract for this appointment of an "independent FM
Company".
The Contractor after having given extensive consideration as to what is in the best interest of the Project
in relation to the DLP O&M Services, the Contractor has decided that it shall undertake the provision of
the DLP O&M Services using an in-house Facilities Management (FM) team, comprised of competent
senior airport facilities management professionals, with the appropriate levels of experience,
qualifications and training. The Contractor further advises that the use of the in-house FM team meets
the
additional requirement of the Engineer in relation to being "fully involved in the installation process of
all
specialist systems" and "approval/acceptance of all relevant shop drawings" as the Contractor has been
involved in these. The in-house FM team has already been involved in the following processes, in line
with the Employer's
requests:
• Engaging with the O&M Manuals Preparation Process - reviewing the manuals from an
operational point of view and making sure that they are fit for purpose;
• Engaging with the Spare Parts Management Process - reviewing the Spare Parts Lists and
determining the quantities of reliable spare parts stock level needed for uninterrupted operation;
• Engaging with the Asset Management Process- participating in the Asset Management process to
transfer know-how;
• Conducting a Scope Analysis to Identify the Scope of the Project and conducting a scope gap
analysis together with a scope variation analysis;
• Engaging with High Level Equipment Strategy;
• Engaging with Training Scheduling Process; and

• Conducting the Response Time Assessment.
The Contractor attaches hereto the details of our in-house FM approach for the DLP period, for your
review and feedback.
Yours faithfully,
