
Subject:

Re: Application for Taking Over and Release of Retention Monies

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters referenced (1) and (2) above and our discussion regarding the subject matter
and we hereby inform you the following.
Please be informed that pursuant to the conditions under Clause 8 [Retention] of Schedule 11 [Payment
Terms], you are not entitled for the release of the retention amount against a corresponding Retention
Bond as stated in your letter reference (1) above. For ease of reference, please note the following
Clauses of Schedule 11:
Clause 8.3 “No Retention Money shall be released, and the value of any Retention Bond shall not be
reduced, on the issue of the Taking Over Certificate for Substantial Completion”.
Clause 8.4 “When the Taking Over Certificate has been issued for NOTP Completion the Subcontractor
may reduce the value of the Retention Bond so that the Total Retention is reduced by fifty percent
(50%)”.
Clause 8.5 “If the value of the Retention Bond is, as a result of paragraph 8.4, reduced to nil the
Contractor shall:
(a) promptly return the Retention Bond to the Subcontractor; and
(b) the amount of Retention Money (if any) necessary to reduce the Total Retention to fifty percent
(50%) of the Total Retention immediately prior to the value of the Retention Bond being reduced under
paragraph 8.4 shall be certified by the Contractor for payment to the Subcontractor”.
Clause 8.6 “Subject to paragraph 8.7, within eighty four (84) days after the expiry of the Defect Liability
Period, the outstanding balance of the Retention Money shall be certified by the Contractor for payment
to the Subcontractor and the Contractor shall return to the Subcontractor any Retention Bond that it
holds”.
Clause 8.7 “However, if any work remains to be executed or defect, deficiency or damage remedied
under clause 19 (Defects Liability), the Contractor shall be entitled (at its sole discretion) to withhold the
estimated cost of this work from the Retention Money until such work has been carried out and
completed and/or the defect, deficiency or damage has been remedied”.
In view of the above, please be informed that the return of the Retention Bond and the release of the
retention monies are subject to the issue of TOC for NOTP Completion (Non-Operational Trial Period).
Consequently, since TOC for NOTP completion has not been issued by the Engineer yet, which is further
explained below, we are unable to proceed with issuance of the same. Therefore once the
aforementioned is issued by the Engineer we shall proceed with the provisions provided within the
Subcontract and described herein to release the Retention Bond and the retention amounts accordingly.
In regards to your request as per your letter reference (2) wherein you have applied for a Taking Over
Certificate (TOC), please note that the TOC is subject to the Engineer’s issuance. Pursuant to Clause
18.1.1 [Taking Over of the Subcontract Works and Milestones] “Subject to clause 18.2 (Taking Over of
Parts of the Subcontract Works) a Taking Over Certificate shall only be issued on Substantial Completion

and NOTP Completion. […]”. Moreover, Clause 18.1.8 clearly specifies that “Notwithstanding the
provisions of this clause 18.1, the Subcontractor agrees that receipt by the Contractor of the relevant
Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the Works from the Engineer is a condition precedent for
the issuance by Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the
Subcontract Works, unless otherwise agreed”. Accordingly, please be informed that the Engineer has
not yet issued any TOC for any of the parts of the works for any of the Subcontractors in the Project.
In response to your statement made in your letter referenced (2) above, regarding the expenses
associated with the renewal of Insurance Policies, Bonds and Warranties, we would suggest that you
continue submitting any costs related to your prolongation costs to ensure that all relevant evidences
related to your prolongation costs are submitted for evaluation.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours faithfully,
