Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter 2) whereby the Engineer requested a price quotation and possible impact
to the Time for Completion for the curtailing of the Landscape Design at the completion of the M2
design stage (including SONO) for Joaan Station and at the completion of the M3 design stage (including
SONO) for the other Stations, to avoid overlap with design works to be carried out by others.

As a consequence of this change, the Landscape Design will be produced (by others) according to
Ashghal's design guidelines Qatar Highway Design Manual (QHDM) therefore the Contractor ascertained
that its ability to secure the GSAS requirements for a number of credits as detailed in the non-exhaustive
list enclosed herewith will be prejudiced.

In addition,the Contractor will have no control regarding the delivery dates for the Landscape Design
therefore the Programmes for the Architectural Provisional Sum tenders related to landscape and for
the subsequent Construction thereof will be jeopardized.

Moreover, the extent of the Landscape Design's (by others) impact on the Pop-ups and Entrances is an
additional risk that the Contractor cannot quantify at this stage.

Further to the above, the Contractor hereby informs the Engineer's Assistant's that it is advisable not to
curtail the Contractor's Landscape Design at the completion of the M2 design stage (including SONO) for
Joaan Station and at the completion of the M3 design stage (including SONO) for the other Stations.

However, should the Engineer decide otherwise, the Contractor would require clarification of the abovementioned items in order to ascertain and quantify the full extent of the risks and associated costs and
of the impact on the Time for Completion.

Upon receipt of such clarifications, of the corresponding Engineer's Instruction pursuant to Sub-Clauses
3.1.4, 3.3, 13.1.1 and 13.1.2 of the Contract and upon achievement of SONO status for the Landscape
Design, the Contractor will be able to comply with the Engineer's Assistant's request under letter
reference 1) to deliver "the compiled final Handover document package for Joaan Landscape design".

In the absence of an instruction to the contrary, notwithstanding the requested quotation, the
Contractor will continue its Landscape Design for all Stations according to its current Scope of Works.
Further to the above, the Contractor confirms that the Engineer's Assistant's comments received under
letter reference 1) will be incorporated in its Landscape M2 Design Stage for Joaan Station, that will be
resubmitted for SONO.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification. Yours faithfully,
