Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Assistant's ("EA') letter at reference 1 (received by the
Contractor on 28 December 2015) in which the EA refers to "the supplementary UPS/ battery rooms
introduced in reference 2 [Engineer's Instruction ("El") Nr 078 received on 01 October 2015] to replace
the diesel generators" (parenthesis added).

The EA further "confirms that the requirement s for one supplementary UPS/battery room with
minimum area of 70m2 and minimum clear headroom of 5 m per I type station and two such rooms for
X type stations." However , this "confirmation" is at variance to the issued El Nr 078 which states that
the minimum clear headroom is 4 m for UPS rooms within the I-type stations.

Furthermore, within reference 1 the EA continues to direct its requirement (referred to incorrectly as
"guidance") for the Contractor to now develop its station designs to accommodate the supplementary
UPS/battery rooms within the overburden for stations subject to certain stated conditions. Where such
conditions cannot be adhered to, the EA further states that: "the supplementary UPS/battery room
should be located within the station box utilizing rooms which are currently shown unallocated in the
001 Architectural Layouts." Finally, the EA closes its stated requirement (not guidance) stating: "We
request that AL YSJ JV incorporates such measures at each station at the earliest possible time to avoid
future delay to design development..." (emphasis added). All of the aforementioned UPS/battery room
requirements referred to within this paragraph are again at variance to the previously issued El Nr 078.

As the EA does not have the contractual authority to issue Instructions to the Contractor (reference 3
refers), either under General Condition ("GC") 3.3.1 (Instructions of the Engineer) or GC 13.1.1 (Right to
Vary), the Contractor respectfully requests, by urgent return, the appropriate Engineer's Instruction
(together with the Employer's specific GC 3.1.4 written approval of same) covering the above stated
requirements amending the previously issued El Nr 078 articulated by the EA within reference 1.
Meanwhile, in the interests of the Contract's progress, the Contractor confirms that it is proceeding with
the EA's stated design requirements.

Yours faithfully,
