Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0108
Engineer’s Late and Unreasonable Comments to RFI/0401/16986 for Access Ramps for BHS
Rolling Shutter Doors: Request for Engineer’s Instruction / VO
Dear Sir

Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described below
may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works; hence we seek your swift resolution of the same.
The Event(s):
On 27 March 2019, we submitted RFI/0401/16986 (dated 25 March 2019), advising you of issues relating
to the current design of the access ramps for the BHS roller shutter doors and requesting that you give
consideration for changing the interlocking block paving to a concrete slab. Attached thereto was inter
alia a sketch detail identifying both the existing ramp details and suggested ramp details, together with a
single page summary explaining the purpose and intent of the suggested change. .
In short, having discussed the matter with the rolling shutter and induction loop supplier, we were
advised that the induction loop cables cannot physically be installed in a block pavement owing to the
potential for settlement and it is normally the case that the induction loop is buried in concrete. In all,
there are a 22 nos. of openings/fast-acting BHS shutters subject to the suggested change.
However, despite us requesting that you respond to RFI/0401/16986 by 5 April 2019, you failed to do so
until 17 calendar days later i.e. on 22 April 2019, in the manner shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1
Date Submitted RFI Ref: Rev
Description of Contents Reply Req’d By Date
Response
Received
Overdue By
27-Mar-19
RFI/0401/16986
00
Access Ramps for BHS rolling shutter doors-change of
interlock pavement
to concrete slab05-Apr-19
22-Apr-19
17 days
Moreover, we further record that your response to RFI/0401/16986 not only contains comments that
we consider to be unreasonable and misleading, but also endeavours to introduce surreptitious changes
to the existing design and the scope of our Works. The information recorded in Table 2 below, records
each of the various comments set out in your response to RFI/0401/16986, alongside which we have
provided a response justifying why we believe those comments are unreasonable.
Table 2
Item Engineer’s Comments Contractor’s Response as Agreed
1
Contractor proposal to change the block pavement into concrete slab for access ramps is based
on the contractor talking with their supplier without providing any evidence from the supplier
confirming the cable's installation requirements and the embedment depth determined by the
manufacturer. This comment is misleading. The type of induction loop required is clearly specified in
Specification Section 083323 [Overhead Coiling Doors]. This was revised by the Employer’s Design
Consultant for the fast acting shutters to utilize the high speed door manufacturer. All information from
the manufacturer was provided in the related Material Submittal and on Shop Drawings. Any failure to
provide proper design coordination for the specified products is the responsibility of the Engineer.
2
However, as discussed and agreed during 16 April 2019 site meeting with the contractor, the
induction loop proper functionality should be maintained, the following options should be considered by
the contractor in sequence of importance:
The manufacturer’s requirements are clear. The current
design for the pavement does not allow for the functionality of the loop to be maintained. This is the
reason for raising the RFI.
3
1. Use block pavement with minimum tile thickness to comply with the performance
requirements installed on top of concrete bedding which the loop will be embedded into it.
This
comment is inappropriate and is an attempt to implement design change through an RFI response. The
Engineer is required to provide a clear functional design and issue any changes through an Instruction.
4
2. Extend the asphalt of the apron service road to cover the access ramps which the loop will be
embedded into it.
This comment is inappropriate and is an attempt to implement design change

through an RFI response. The Engineer is required to provide a clear functional design and issue any
changes through an Instruction.
5
3. Proceed with the contractor proposal to change the block pavement into Concrete pavement.
However, when applying Concrete pavement, the following needs to be considered: - Concrete needs to
have construction joints, preferable every Sm, but in case this does not suit the loop sensors, slightly
different size can be accepted. - Drawing MTC-C-04-AS-_-L1-0-6-_-_-274 is included for joint type 4
details. - Material and finishing need to be as per the attached MTA specifications.- Odd shaped This
comment is inappropriate and is an attempt by the Engineer to implement design change through an RFI
response. The Engineer is required to provide a clear functional design and issue any changes through
an Instruction prior to the contractor proceeding further.
The Contractor is raising the issue of an uncoordinated and improper design and is offering solutions.
The solutions that the Engineer is now suggesting in its response will have time and cost impacts.
It is for the reasons listed in Table 2 above, that we consider your comments to be misleading and
unreasonable. Added to which, as indicated, your comments attempt to introduce changes to the
existing IFC design which will require a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO).
SAA8 laid down mandatory procedures to be followed if additional works are required, and you have
failed to follow these; an EI and VO are needed for us to proceed with the aforementioned changes.
We therefore take this opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:
We note that the delayed response to RFI/0401/16986 coupled with your comments annotated therein
requiring us to introduce fundamental changes to the design and scope of works associated with the fast
acting shutters, particularly at such a late stage of the Project, is likely to delay the installation of the
induction loops and delay Testing and Commissioning to all 22 openings/fast-acting shutters, and
invariably impact on our ability to obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC).
This is essential to achieving Milestone MS09B and may impact MS09C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
It is for this reason therefore, that we issue this E-Notice requesting your prompt action, guidance,
decision or further instruction as may be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to
mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works. This includes for example:
1.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within ten (10) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
