Subject: PCEJV Notification of Dispute - Generator Exhaust System Scope and
Dear Sir,

We acknowledge receipt of your letter reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJ?/ L/02879 dated 15th October 2016,
a follow up to your correspondence reference MTB/PCEJV /TCAJV / L/02666 dated 25th August 2016
being that of a response to our previous communication MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/003936 dated 22"d
September 2016 on the subject matter 'Generator Exhaust System Scope and Instruction to Proceed Notification of Dispute', and would respond as follows to the contents within.
The issue of scope ownership associated with the Generator Exhaust System is that of a protracted
debate that has lasted over four months, commencing with that of the instruction issued under the
Subcontract Conditions, culminating in that of verbal confirmation from PCEJV that the original
instruction of these works issued under Letter Reference MTB/ TCA/PCEJV/L/003370 on 21st May 2016
was rejected on the basis that despite substantiation being given by us over a plethora of
correspondences, the instruction to proceed would not be actioned as it were perceived by you that
such works did not form part of your contracted works. The rejection of this instruction being that of a
clear breach of the Subcontract Agreement between us, by you.
Nevertheless, due to the receipt of your Formal Notification of Dispute in this regard, we are again
compelled to further substantiate our assessment of the same and present them so as to enable such
resolution in the matter to be achieved.
Resolution of the same will be in strict accordance with that of Clause 27.3 (Dispute Resolution) of the
Conditions of Subcontract which form an integral part of the Subcontract Agreement between us.
For the record we disagree with your allegation that a dispute had already been acknowledged over the
Generator Exhaust System. You have in attempt to bypass your contractual obligations as highlighted in
our Letter Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/003936 dated 22"d September 2016 by taking out of context
OL!r statement that ' .... due to the receipt of your correspondence in this regard we are in the process
of formalising our response, however the requirement of the disputed scope in question .... .'. Our
response in this matter was based on your argumentative, debated and wrangled position on the
matter, in short disputed. In this instance all that highlighted was your dispute in the matter I refusal to
comply with the Subcontract Conditions. In summary we completely reject your allegation that 'the
Contractor that its failure to acknowledge a legitimate Notice of Dispute under the Subcontract
Agreement, is in contradiction of its obligation to use all reasonable endeavours to settle the dispute
within 30 days of the dispute notice ... .'. It would appear from your correspondence and allegations in
this matter that it is you that is in contradiction of its obligation to use such endeavours to settle such an
agreement prior to issuance of Dispute Notice.
Nevertheless, In accordance with that of Clause 27.3.1 an interim meeting will be confirmed under cover
of separate letter whereas each party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a representative who
has authority to settle the dispute or difference at such a dispute meeting. In accordance with the
aforementioned Clause such a meeting will take place on or before 2ih September 2016, the same being
30 days after receipt of your Letter
Reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/02666 dated 25th August 2016 (Received 28th August 2016).
Please find attached our determination in this matter of which the same clearly clarifies our position.

If you seek further clarification to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Subject: Generator Exhaust System Scope - PCEJV Failure to Follow Dispute Notice Procedure
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB/PCEJVITCAJVILI02666 dated 251h August 2016
on the subject matter 'Generator Exhaust System Scope and Instruction to Proceed- Notification of
Dispute', and would respond as follows to the contents within.
The Subcontract Agreement between us is clear as to the procedures in place which need to be adhered
to and implemented I followed prior to any issuance of a Dispute Notice. It is clear from your Letter
Reference MTB/PCEJV ITCAJV ILI02666 of 21st August 2016, that it is your intention to bypass such prerequisites subsequently attempting to accelerate the issuance of a Dispute Notice without first following
the direction of the Subcontract Agreement. This is completely unacceptable and will not be
entertained.
As a matter of course and prior to any Dispute Meeting being convened following the issuance of a
Dispute Notice, a number of procedures need to take place and as such are condition precedence.
(1) You are to formally submit your fully documented Final Submission as to why you believe, in this case
that the Generator Exhaust System does not form part of your contracted Scope of Work on the Project.
Such a document when issued should clearly state wit hin the t it le that the same is that of your 'Final
Submission' to prevent such ambiguity going forward.
(2) Upon receipt of your fully documented final submission, we under Clause 11.4.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract will issue our final assessment and determination within 28 days of the date of receipt of
such particulars (Final Submission). Such Final Submission and that of Final Assessment I Determination
being subject to previous consultations and I or discussions between us being completely exhausted. For
ease of reference Clause 11.4.1 states; 'Whenever the Subcontract provides that the Contractor shall
proceed in accordance with this Clause 11.4 to agree or determine any matter, the Contractor shall
consult with the Subcontractor in an endeavour to reach agreement. If an agreement is not reached
within twenty eight (28} Days (or such other period as the parties may agree}, the Contractor shall make
a fair determination strictly in accordance with these conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the parties as set out in the
Subcontract'.
(3) Following receipt of such a Determination from us in this matter, you if still not in agreement with
the same are to issue a notice of dissatisfaction within 21 days from receipt of such a Determination.
The aforementioned being in strict accordance with that of Clause 11.4.2 of the Conditions of
Subcontract, which for ease of reference states; 'The Contractor shall give notice of each agreement or
determination, with supporting particulars.
The Subcontractor shall give effect to each agreement or determination unless the Subcontractor
gives notice to the Contractor of its dissatisfaction with a determination within twenty one (21} Days
of receiving it. Either party may refer the dispute for resolution pursuant to Clause 27.3 (Dispute
Resolution). Pending the resolution of any dispute in accordance with Clause 27.3 (Dispute
Resolution), the parties shall give effect to the Contractors Determination'.

(4) If such a Determination is subject to the issuance of a Notice of Dissatisfaction as highlighted within
Item 3, you can than issue the matter for resolution under that of Clause 27.3.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract (Dispute Resolution) and as stated within the same a Dispute Meeting will be convened
within thirty days (30) from receipt of your notice. For ease of reference; ,In the event of any dispute,
difference, controversy or claim between the parties arising out of or in connection with or relating to
the Subcontract, representatives of the parties shan within thirty {30} Days of written notice from one
party (the Notifying Party) to the other party (a Dispute Notice) hold a meeting (a Dispute Meeting) in an
effort to resolve the dispute or difference. Each party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a
representative who has authority to settle the dispute or difference at the Dispute Meeting'.
It is clear from the correspondences on file that you have failed to adhere to such procedures and I or
protocols and as such are attempting to accelerate this issue to dispute levels without issuing the
relevant notices. In summary you are instructed by return to formally submit your final, fully
substantiated document which clearly schedules out your argument and I or position on the issue of the
Generator Exhaust System not forming part of your contracted scope on the Project.
We would at this juncture reiterate for the record that steps 1-4 inclusive are to be followed in strict
accordance with the Subcontract Agreement, with the same culminating in the convening of a Dispute
Meeting if such an issue cannot be resolved amicably.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, however if you seek further clarification to the
points raised, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Subject: Invitation to attend a Dispute Meeting
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: CSC_ TCAJV /MTB/LSH/L01529 dated 25th September 2016 (received 27th
September 2016) wherein you issue a notice citing Clause 27.3.1 of the Subcontract (Dispute Resolution)
for what appears to be inter alia a claim for additional Costs.
Please be advised that your claims are connected with or related to claims under the Main Contract and
accordingly Clause 27 .3.2A of the Conditions of Subcontract shall apply.
As required by Clause 27.3.1 we are required to hold a Dispute Meeting with you for the purpose of
clarifying your claims, determining what information is outstanding or further information required and
the actions to be taken by both Parties given that your claims are connected with or related to claims
under the Main Contract.
Meeting Name:
Meeting Date:
Meeting Timing:
Meeting Venue:
Dispute Meeting in relation to Letter L01529
On or Before Thursday 3rd November 2016, to be confirmed
To be confirmed
To be confirmed
Kindly confirm and advise the names of the attendees and suggested date for the Meeting.
Yours faithfully,
