Subject: Notice of Delay – Completion of Hotel Building
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (2) above in response to our letter referenced (1), stating
your disagreement about the delays as per the subject. We therefore, inform you that our position
remains as per the content of our aforementioned letter.
Additionally, we refute the content of your letter referenced (1) alleging that there have been access
issues, including installation of scaffolding and coordination of works with other Subcontractors. Our
rejection is based on the fact that you have not notified us previously about the mentioned issues,
whereas we have notified you numerous times about the delays in your works on site. Furthermore in
your letter, you have failed to provide any evidence to substantiate your allegations.
In regards to your comments about the access, the installation of scaffolding and coordination, please
be reminded that the scaffolding as per the Subcontract Agreement Appendix K [Facilities Responsibility
Matrix] is under your responsibility. However, we have been providing scaffolding on your behalf due to
your failure to provide it, according to your Subcontract obligations. You are also reminded that as per
Schedule Rev 10.4, you were required to install the scaffolding or any access for the hotel and office
external works, complete your installation and dismantle the access to allow other Subcontractors to
build their own platform, which you failed to do so.
It is noted that you are intended to be the first Subcontractor to enter, commence and eventually
complete the works in the aforementioned areas, so that access is provided to the other trades.
However, your failure to do so, has caused delays in the sequence of works of other Subcontractors.
For your reference, we have listed below (and attached) the original sequence of the external works,
which you failed to undertake timeously:

1.
Failure to install and align the louvers and cantilever beams;
2.
Failure to install external flashing;
3.
Failure to complete WIRs for flashing before proceeding with the cover board and catwalk
installation;
4.
Failure to install the cover board which in now being installed by M/S Capital on your behalf due
to your lack of manpower;
5.
Catwalk installation;
6.
MEP and Building Maintenance Unit works.
Please note that the scaffolding that has been installed, can be used by all Subcontractors and in all
levels and it actually keeps enough gap for your works to proceed with the external flashing. To achieve
this, we had to locate the scaffolding at M/S AIG’s cat walk frame. This has been prepared in this
manner, due to your failure to complete the external flashing works which were hindering other trades
to proceed with their works accordingly.
Due to your aforementioned failures, we had to revise the sequence of works to recover your delays and
reduce the impact to other Subcontractors. By reviewing the below sequence of events, it is understood
that due to your failures, a simple procedure has become very complicated and is affecting other trades:
1.
Scaffolding installation by TCAJV at L3.0 to L3.1;
2.
You have failed to align the cantilever beams at Level 3.1. We have found that most of the
cantilever beams are wrongly installed with over rotation. As per the structural calculation, the
deflection of the cantilever beam should only be allowed up to a max of 5mm. However, we have found
straightness problems up to 50-60mm. Due to the above, you had to revisit these works and redo the
alignment of all beams one by one, to enable M/S AIG to fix their frames with a straight position;
3.
Bottom flashing installation by AGC shown in blue colour in the enclosed drawing must be
completed first to enable AIG to start with their works i.e. catwalk frame;
4.
Cat walk frame installation by AIG;
5.
External flashing installation by AGC;
6.
Complete WIR for flashing by AGC before proceeding with the cover board;
7.
Scaffolding installation by TCAJV at L3.1 to L3.2 by locating the scaffolding base on AIG frame;
8.
Cover board installation at L3.1 by AGC (M/S Capital will do these works on your behalf, due to
your lack of manpower);
9.
Sprinkler and BMU installation (cable trays and lighting cannot proceed since AIG cannot fix the
gratings to enable AGC to complete the external flashing and cover board installation);
10.
Alignment of cantilever beams at Level 3.2 by AGC;
11.
The sequence of events have to be repeated from 1 to 10 until Level 3.4 to enable you to
complete your works;
12.
Dismantle scaffolding from Level 3.4 to Level 3.3;
13.
Install Grating at Level 3.3 by AIG;
14.
Install Cable Trays and Lighting by MEP;
15.
Dismantle scaffolding from Level 3.3 to 3.2;
16.
Repeat the sequence from 12 to 15.
In regards to the outstanding internal works which are still not completed, we have listed below the
reasons for the delays:

1.
Louver installation delayed due to late delivery and miscoordination between you and your
subcontractor’s engineering teams. Still there are around 90nr. pieces of louvers, not yet delivered to
the site;
2.
Inner flashing installation delayed due to lack of materials. Corner flashings still not delivered to
the site;
3.
Door closure delayed due to lack of materials. Still some materials are missing;
4.
Windows installation delayed due to late delivery. Even though the materials (glass) have now
been received and installed, however, they have been installed with wrong hinges. WIRs cannot proceed
until the RFI’s are approved. This is due to your failure to follow the approved shop drawings;
5.
Replacement of fire rated glass has not been completed. It is Pending for delivery;
6.
Replacement of wrong bolts has not been done for curtain walls. This is again due to your failure
to follow the approved shop drawings;
7.
Fire rated silicon application is still ongoing due to the late delivery. The corners have not
started yet, due to the delay of the flashing installation;
8.
Perforated panel installation has not been completed in the office building due to late delivery.
It is also noted that this is due to the fact that you have not installed the scaffolding as required and you
are depending on TCAJV to provide access;
9.
Removal of curtain wall protection and cleaning has not been completed yet;
10.
There are only a few final inspections raised and rejected due to incomplete works. There are
more final inspections not even raised yet.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us, in
order to complete the aforementioned activities and submit your planned completion date with
mitigation measures to recover the delays caused by you.
Any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Yours faithfully,
