Subject Pipework and other infrastructure subsidence - notice of claim for delay, disruption
and additional cost in accordance with Contract Clause 15.2.4
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) and once again oppose the Contractor's assertions. To
this effect, the Contractor is referred to Clause 9.3 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment
No.8 and we note that the Parties have confirmed that they have entered into SAA8 without relying
on any statement, representation, assurance or promise that is not expressly set out in the Settlement
Agreement.
In addition to the above, we reiterate that the Revised Contract Price {Clause 2.3 SAA8) is inclusive of
Subsidence (Clause 5 SAA8). We record again that the Contractor's allegations regarding delay and
disruption and additional cost have no contractual basis and merit. Furthermore, with regard to the
statement contained in correspondence {2) and {3) in relation to an alleged delay in issuing Issued for
Construction {IFC) documentation, we note that the Contractor has prevented the Employer from
issuing the IFC due to the Contractor's own delays in discharging its obligations under SAA8 with
respect to performing the required testing and investigative works such as:
• Delays in the completion of correctly executed CPTs and SPTs to allow the Design Consultant
to complete their assessment of the ground treatment - note that this has yet to be
completed with an excess of 40 No. CPT's outstanding

• Delays in proceeding with the inundation testing for the manholes
Delays in conducting the collapse testing of the material samples
The Contractor failed to comply with the Engineer's Instructions
reference {8) to facilitate the assessment by the Design Consultant
Cone calibration non-compliances impacting on the accuracy of SPT and CPT results
• Inaccurate CCTV tilt graphics from KMG which necessitated a complete re-survey by a new
vendor APPLUS Velosi. This has significantly delayed the overall review of the pipeline profile
and scope of rectification works.
• Delay in air testing
• Storm water surveys and CCTV tilt graphics
The majority of the CPT's have only been completed by the Contractor on 111h June 2019 and with
regard to the allegation of "additional" points being requested by the Engineer, we record that these
are not additional but are required as a result of the previously issued CPT/SPTs failing to having been
executed correctly and in providing the required data to allow the ground conditions to be assessed.
Furthermore, the Contractor has yet to complete the CPT's in the area of the temporary substations
and this again precludes the Design Consultant from completing their assessments. The Contractor is
obligated to perform tests and trials both on and off Site and any other preparatory work required for
the rectification works (Clause 5.3 SAA8).
The Contractor's attempts to insinuate that they have an entitlement to any time and cost is baseless
(4). It has been highlighted numerous times that according to Clause 5 of SAA8 the Contractor has no
entitlement whatsoever to additional time and/or cost arising out of or in connection with the
subsidence.
In light of the above, the Contractor's contentions are refuted and there is no entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost in relation to the subsidence and we consider the Contractor's Delay
Notice (4) to have no merit.
Yours faithfully,
