Subject:Re: Subcontract Termination for Concrete Workmanship (ADE/P0/3228/2020)
We refer to your letter ref: (2) above, within which you have set out a number of unsubstantiated
allegations seemingly based largely upon conjecture and selective recall, in which you have in-formed us
about your intention to terminate our Subcontract.
With this letter, we express our discontent and wish to put on record, that the termination was received without prior verbal or written warning and most certainly, without any valid reason.
It appears that with your letter ref: (2), you have assumed an unbalanced interpretation of the actuality.
We, however, are content to rely upon recorded data that when presented for objective review will
reveal the facts in this matter.
Regrettably and rather interestingly, not long after you received our letter ref: (1), wherein we pointed
out your failure to release our payments resulting in a breach of contract, you have proceeded to
terminate the Subcontract.
For the sake of clarity, we hereby respond to your letter ref: (2) as follows:
It is an indisputable fact that since 12 September 2020 we have engaged with you in a series of
discussions, meetings, and correspondences in an endeavor to agree on the terms of the Subcontract
and commence with the works.
On or about the middle of September 2020, after the meeting between our CEO and your management,
we were urged to commence with the works at the earliest opportunity. Despite the fact, that the
negotiations were still ongoing for the finalization of the terms of the Subcontract between us, and
despite the fact we did not have a signed contract at that point in time yet, in good faith, we started the
works on 21 September 2020 while still waiting for the issuance and execution of the Subcontract Order.
In this regard, it is worth noting your comment on email 15 September 2020 [3:09 PM], attached to
Annex A wherein you attached a draft Subcontract Order, stating the following:
“Given the fact that the attached copy of the Subcontract/Purchase Order is “DRAFT ON-LY” and is
intended for the purpose of review/discussion and mutual acceptance on the terms and conditions
stipulated therein; and does not constitute any binding commitment on the part of either party until
formal Subcontract/Purchase Order is duly signed by both parties.” [underlined and bold for emphasis].

It is noted that we have sent numerous verbal and written reminders, as evidenced by our emails
attached to Annex A (i.e. 28 September 2020 [3:44 PM], 13 October 2020 [11:18 AM], 19 October 2020
[11:30:50 AM], etc .) requesting the release of the Subcontract Order.
We put on record that the final Subcontract Order ref: ADE/PO/3228/2020 was released via your email
received on 29 December 2020 [6:11:39 PM] attached to Annex B hereto, and was executed by both
parties on 29 December 2020. Essentially, the release and the execution of the Subcontract on your part
was delayed for more than 3 months after the commencement of works.
It appears that the delay to release and execute the Subcontract on your part has been intentional,
possibly aiming to the completion of a substantial part of the works without the release of any payment
and leading up to the termination of our services without a valid reason.
It also appears that the Subcontract has been drafted one-sided with a lot of contradictions and without
the required skill and care, which is evident when reviewing some of the Subcontract terms. It is obvious
that numerous of the Subcontract terms are contrary to the requirements of good faith, and they cause
significant imbalance and are included in an effort to limit your liability.
Also, the fact that the Subcontract has not been drafted with reasonable skill and care is evident by the
handwritten notes, and the numerous contradictions contained thereto, which will be discussed in a
separate letter.
We are confident that when the Subcontract is presented for an objective review, taking into consideration the development of the facts and your unacceptable actions, some of the unfair terms will be
waived and/or negated.
In view of the development of the facts, and after receipt of your letter ref: (2), the intention and the
actual reasons for the delay to release the Subcontract Agreement on your part, are now becoming
evident which are further discussed below.
We also put on record that we are yet to receive any of the payments for our Interim Payment Applications (IPA) 1 to 3 as shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1
Project Payment Status (As of 2 January 2021)
Interim Payment Application (IPA)
Interim Payment Certificate (IPC) & Payment
IPA No. Amount
IPA Submission Date IPC Due Date
(+7 Days from IPA)
Payment Certificate Issuance Date
Payment
(+15 Days from IPC)
Status
001
???
26-October-2020
3-November-2020
9-November-2020
2020
Payment 43 days overdue
002
???
28-November-2020
05-December-2020
16-December -2020
2020 Payment 10 days overdue
003
???
24-December-2020
31-December-2020
31-December-2020
2021 Payment 13-Days Due Date

18-November-

20-December15-January

-

We note that your failure in delaying to release of our payments shown in Table 1 above is a breach of
the Subcontract Clause 9 [Payment Terms], where it states that payments shall be re-leased within 15
days:
“Payment against progressive monthly Subcontractor invoices, after acceptance of work by the
Client/Consultant/Contractor and to be paid within 15 days”.
It is for the reasons stated above, that we sent you letter ref: (1) above, wherein we informed you inter
alia that the delays of the release of our payments are causing detrimental cashflow and financial issues
to our company and have impacted and will continue to impact our ability to progress with the works
constructively.
Moreover, in our letter ref: (1), we informed you that, in case we do not receive our due payments
within seven (7) days from receipt of the letter, we would suspend the works, and you will be held for
repudiatory breach of the contract.
From the outset, it is becoming clear that the reasons you assert in your letter ref: (2), in an effort to
substantiate a termination, are not valid and cannot be substantiated by any means. Therefore, we
respond to each of your points as follows:
First Point
ADE:
“Your night shift team de-shuttered main beam prior to the agreed formwork striking date
causing huge risk on its stability which led to serious aggressive actions against us from the consultant
and to reassure the validity of this beam which took at least two weeks in addition to extra cost.”
ADMC response:
We put on record that the shutter was removed after your request and under the supervision of ADE’s
night engineer. Nevertheless, ADMC has taken immediate corrective actions, and the bottom part of the
beam was back propped as shown in Figure 1 below, and described in the Internal Report ref: ADMCDarwish-NCR-001 (attached to Annex C hereto). The aforementioned Internal Report was also sent to
you on 23 November 2020 via email 23 November 2020 [15:00], also attached to Annex C hereto.
Figure 1

We also note that to date, no rectification has taken place for this beam, since level 2 of the slab has
already been cast as shown in Figure 2 below. This comment is made in response to your comments
about the alleged extra cost incurred.
Figure 2
Furthermore, it is worth noting that a similar mistake of de-shuttering at CW4 was made by you on the
same day on 23 November 2020, where an NCR ref: MARHQ-ADE-NCR-CIV-00088 was raised by the
Consultant Engineer, which is attached to Annex D hereto and re-produced in Figure 3 below.
Figure 3

This evidently demonstrates, the lack of supervision by ADE, as well as, that the de-shuttering for both
parts of the works (ADE’s and ADMC’s part) was done following the re-quest and instructions of ADE.
Second Point
ADE: “Your team failed to finish the shuttering work of the top part of 5m beam which obstructed us to
finish this item of work in one day and to rearrange the whole process again which took one full extra
week”
ADMC response:
As you are well aware, the slabs are constructed with steel structure and concrete;
consequently, our works depend on the completion of the steel structure. Thus, only after clearance
from the steel structure subcontractor (GSE) and after installation of the anchors to the columns and
beams attached to the structural elements, and completion of the MEP works, we can proceed with our
part of the works.
This means that the steel structure and the MEP works have to be completed first, before we can
proceed with closing the shutters for the beam you are referring to. As a result, we have completed the
top part of the 5m beam, and in coordination with the other trades i.e. GSE and MEP, and after
clearance was provided accordingly we completed the shuttering works. Effectively, the duration and
completion of the structural elements and MEP work from SC4 to CW2, were completed a week later as
per the original plan, thus delaying our works as well.
In addition to this, we have also incurred delays of about 3 days due to the unavailability of pump and
concrete, which is under your responsibility.
Therefore, the alleged delays you are referring to in your comments are not our responsibility,
and thus cannot be accepted.

Third Point
ADE: “You have been informed repeatedly to increase your manpower, but no action taken by you”
ADMC response:
We have deployed on-site more than 130 workers during November 2020, as evidenced by the
attendance sheets from our safety and daily records. However, as discussed in our letter ref: (1) and also
discussed hereunder, the delays to release our payments have caused detrimental cashflow and
financial issues to our company and have impacted our ability to progress and resource the works
adequately.
In addition, via our mentioned letter we stressed the fact that we have been supporting and financing
the Project since the commencement date, without any financial support on your part. We put on
record once again, that at the date of writing, we are yet to receive any payments from you.
Fourth Point
ADE: “You have several numbers of rejected inspections due to your failure to finalize the consult-ant /
QC comments in the proper time”
ADMC response:

QC comments are always part of construction projects and cannot be avoided but can only be
minimized. It is noted that, from the commencement of the works, we have shown all reasonable skill
and care with respect to NCRs and we have taken all measures to rectify the works accordingly, within
the specified time and quality. We refer you to the Inspections Requests (IR) attached to Annex E
hereto, which lists all of the rectification works executed by us.
Sixth Point
ADE: “Your site team held a strike inside our site due to your failure to fulfil your financial obligations to
them which caused serious disturbances in the site.”
ADMC response:
We once again point out that, the main reason we were unable to fulfil our financial obligations with
respect to this project, was due to your failure to release our pending payments for the works executed.
On 25 November 2020, we assure you that, when the workers decided to stop the works on-site, we
communicated and engaged with them in an effort to convince them to return to the works and
continue as normal, but we were not able to convince them to do so.
We put on record that, had you acted in accordance with your contractual obligation to re-lease the
payments on-time, we would have avoided this unfortunate event.
Seventh Point
ADE: “Your delay in commencement of the work subsequently delaying the handing over of the tower
significantly”
ADMC response:
Your comment is refuted in its entirety. As stated above, we have commenced with the works at the
earliest opportunity (i.e. 21 September 2020), after continuous negotiations and out of good faith, since
an agreement and/or a Subcontract was not yet in place be-tween us.
Notwithstanding the considerable efforts made by us to progress with the works efficiently and
collaboratively, in most instances, you appeared not to understand the requirements, acted without
reasonable skill and care, and blatantly refused to accept your contractual obligations and the
requirements of the project.
In view of the foregoing, without prejudice to our rights under the Subcontract and the law, with this
letter, we accept your repudiatory breach of the Subcontract, as well as, the Termination notice issued
by you, albeit it has not been validly substantiated.
Accordingly, we inform you that you shall be held fully responsible for any delays and/or costs that may
occur as a result of your actions.
We now await your further advice and/or action as to how you wish to proceed and trust you will
understand that we are similarly considering all our options. We would suggest a high-level meeting to
take place between the management of both companies, to resolve this matter amicably.
Meanwhile, and in accordance with the Subcontract, you are requested to release the payment for IPA
1, 2, and 3 at the earliest.
Additionally, we shall follow the provisions of the Subcontract Clause 8 [Contract Termination] and
submit a payment claim as required. Please note that as a result of your breach of the Subcon-tract and
the unjustified termination, we shall be seeking to claim for recovery of overheads, and loss of profit.

We trust you find the above self-explanatory and await your determination and final meeting to re-solve
this amicably.
Yours faithfully,
