Final Account Agreement (FA- M006-GDB-COM-AGR-00122)
This Final Account Agreement is made the 08th day of August 2016 between;

ALYSJ JV, an unincorporated Joint Venture comprised of Aktor S.A, Larsen & Toubro Limited, Yapi
Merkezi Insaat ve Sanayi Anonim Sirketi, STFA and Al Jaber Engineering LLC and having its head office
address as PO Box 24375, Doha, State of Qatar, (hereinafter referred to as the “Contractor”),
responsible for the design and construction of the Gold Line Underground (hereinafter referred to as the
“Project”).
and

Redco International W.L.L Qatar whose registered office is situated at P.O. Box 16750, Doha, State of
Qatar (the “Subcontractor”).

WHEREAS
A.
The Qatar Railways Company (the "Employer") entered into a contract No. RTC/040/2012 (“the
Main Contract”) with the Contractor for the construction of the Gold Line Underground in Doha, State of
Qatar (the "Project").
B.
The Contractor and the Subcontractor (collectively, the "Parties”) entered into a contract, ref
M006-GDB-COM-AGR-00122 dated 03rd December 2014 (the "Subcontract Agreement") pursuant to
which the Subcontractor agreed to execute the works of Earthworks and Earth Moving at Al Sadd
Stadium Station on the Gold Line Underground Project.
C.
The Parties agree this Final Account Agreement is full and final settlement of the Subcontract
Agreement.
D.
The Parties have agreed that in the event of any inconsistency between the Subcontract
Agreement and the Final Account Agreement, the terms of the Final Account Agreement shall take
precedence.
E.
It is understood by the Parties, that these Recitals shall form an integral part of this Final
Account Agreement.
Therefore in consideration of the premises, agreements and obligations contained in this Final Account
Agreement, the Parties agree:-

1

DEFINITIONS

1.1
“Claims” means all existing, future, known, and unknown claims, demands, and causes of action
for all existing, known, and unknown damages and remedies that arise out of or in connection with the
Agreement, that have been or could be brought by the Subcontractor in any court, tribunal or forum, in
Qatar or any other jurisdiction arising out of or in connection with the Subcontract Agreement and the
Final Account Agreement. Under this definition, “Claims” includes, but is not limited to, all claims,
demands, and causes of action of any nature, whether in contract or in tort, or arising under or by virtue
of any code, law or regulation, for past, present, known, and unknown injuries, property damage, and all
other losses and damages of any kind, including but not limited to the following: all actual damages,
property or economic damage, all penalties of any kind, any tax liabilities or other penalties, damage to
business reputation, loss profits or goodwill, consequential damages, damages ensuing from loss of
credit, prejudgment and post judgment interest, and costs and legal fees. This definition further
includes, but is not limited to, all elements of damages, all remedies, and all claims, demands, and
causes of action that are now recognized by law or that may be created or recognized in the future by
any manner, including without limitation by code, law, regulation, or judicial decision. This definition
further includes, but is not limited to, all claims, demands, and causes of action, which the
Subcontractor may have now or in the future by virtue of assignment or otherwise, arising out of the
manner in which their insurers and counsel handled, settled, or defended any claims, demands, or
causes of action asserted by the Subcontractor.

2

THE FINAL ACCOUNT AGREEMENT PRICE

2.1
The Parties agree that the Final Account Agreement Price for all goods and services provided
under the Subcontract Agreement together with all Claims or other issues, in accordance with the terms
of the Subcontract Agreement is QAR 8,140,296.68
less Contra Charge deduction of QAR
441,896.76, Additional for Daywork of QAR 183,599.50 and deduction for withholdings/deductions of
QAR 435,866.68 due to Subcontractor’s over-applied quantities RESULTING IN A TOTAL OF QAR
7,446,132.74 (Qatari Riyals Seven Million Four Hundred Forty Six Thousand and one Hundred Thirty
Two Riyals and Seventy Four Only) (inclusive of 394,401.48 QAR Three Hundred Ninety Four Thousand
Four Hundred One Riyals and Forty Eight as retention) and that such sum reflects the agreed final
account value due under the Subcontract Agreement. This Final Account Agreement Price is full
consideration for all costs that are payable by Contractor to the Subcontractor in connection with the
Subcontract Agreement and represents the Contractor’s total financial liability.
2.2
The Parties further agree that such Final Agreement Sum is subject to the Subcontractor
performing all outstanding obligations listed herein and/or required by the laws of the State of Qatar
and/or required by the Subcontract Agreement. In the event of the Subcontractor failure to perform any
or all of his outstanding obligations, the Parties agree that the Contractor has the absolute right to set
off any amounts that are/or may be due to the Subcontractor as a consequence of the Subcontractor’s
failure to fulfil his outstanding obligations under any agreement that the Contractor or the parties
forming the Contractor may have now or in the future with the Subcontractor.
2.3
Any amount of set-off pursuant to clause 2.2 above is without prejudice to the rights of the
Contractor or Subcontractor in any subsequent negotiations or legal proceedings to vary the amount
claimed and set-off by the Contractor.

3

PAYMENTS AND RETENTION

3.1

The above Final Account Agreement Sum shall be subject to QAR 394,401.48 retention sum.

3.2
The cumulative total of payments made by the Contractor to the Subcontractor on the date of
signing this Final Account Agreement, is QAR 5,326,659.30 (QAR Five million Three hundred Twenty Six
Thousand Six Hundred Fifty Nine Riyals and Thirty only).
3.3
Therefore, a payment of QAR 0.00 (QAR. Nil) is agreed by the Parties to be due to the Contractor
and shall be paid by the Subcontractor to the Contractor by set-off against the retention release as
described in 3.4 below.
3.4
Retention release of QAR 394,401.48 as described in item 3.1 less payment due to the
Contractor as described in item 3.3 QAR 0.00 resulting to a total of QAR 394,401.48 is agreed by the
Parties to be due to the Subcontractor, and shall only become eligible for payment if the Release of
Liens, Claims and Encumbrances and Discharge Form is submitted to Contractor in duplicate, if the
Subcontractor presents a current and valid Tax Card and Commercial Registration, if any Warranties and
Guarantees (as described in 4.1.1 and 4.1.4 below respectively) are submitted and if this Final Account
Agreement have been signed by the Subcontractor and issued to the Contractor and shall be paid as 3.5
below.
3.5
The payment of retention described in 3.4 pursuant Subcontract Agreement Clause 11.4 and
11.5 shall be issued in two payments as 3.5.1 and 3.5.2:
3.5.1 50% retention shall be released by payment process once the Contractor has issued a TakingOver Certificate for the Subcontract Works;
3.5.2 The balance retention shall be released by payment process once the Contractor has issued
Performance certificate for the Subcontract Works.
3.6
The Subcontractor must submit a State of Qatar tax card and commercial registration documents
that are valid at the date of the invoice(s) and these must be submitted to the Contractor at the same
time as the invoice(s) requesting payment. No payments shall be made without the Subcontractor
submitting this tax information.
3.7
Should the Subcontractor submit the relevant invoice(s) less than fourteen (14) days prior to the
date for payment, then said payment due date shall be extended to fourteen (14) days after the invoice
received date.

4

OUTSTANDING OBLIGATIONS - THE SUB-CONTRACT WORKS / WARRANTIES / GUARANTEES

4.1.

The Parties agree the following outstanding obligations of the Subcontractor:

4.1.1 Duplicate signed and stamped Release of Liens, Claims, Encumbrances and Discharge from the
Subcontractor to the Contractor and Employer (as standard format shown in Appendix A of this Final
Account Agreement).

4.1.2 The Subcontractor shall perform its obligations with regards to (a) making good defective works,
and / or, (b) liabilities during the Defects Notification Period stated in the Subcontract.
4.1.3 The Subcontractor shall complete all its outstanding, defective and incomplete or punch works
and completion shall only be considered achieved upon acceptance by the Contractor, the Engineer and
the Employer.
4.1.4 The Subcontractor shall issue to the Contractor all warranties and guarantees required under the
Subcontract.
5

DISPUTES / ARBITRATION

5.1
Any disputes arising from this Final Account Agreement shall be resolved in accordance with the
Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. The place for arbitration shall be Doha,
State of Qatar and the language used during Arbitration shall be English.

6

GOVERNING LAW

6.1
This Final Account Agreement and the Agreements shall be governed by, construed and take
effect in accordance with the laws of the State of Qatar.

7

RELEASE AND DISCHARGE

7.1
Upon execution of this Final Account Agreement, the Subcontractor agrees to release and
discharge the Contractor from liability for all Claims in relation to or arising out of or in connection with
the Subcontract Agreement and any subsequent monies or remedies due whether arising under the
Subcontract Agreement or otherwise in law.
8

CONFIDENTIALITY

8.1
The information in this Final Account Agreement is strictly confidential. The Parties agree to
maintain strict confidentiality and shall not disclose the contents to any third party without mutual
consent in respect of the information contained herein.
9

MISCELLANEOUS

9.1
Except as expressly stated in this Final Account Agreement, this Final Account Agreement will
not relieve the Subcontractor or the Contractor from their obligations, or prejudice the Subcontractor or
the Contractor’s rights, under the Subcontract Agreement.
9.2
If any provision of this Final Account Agreement or part is rendered void, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect under any law, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired. In such event, the Parties shall use their
reasonable endeavours to negotiate an acceptable substitute provision or part as soon as possible.

9.3
Each of the Parties represents, warrants, and agrees that in executing this Final Account
Agreement it has relied solely on the statements set forth herein and the advice of its own counsel.
Each of the Parties further represents, warrants, and agrees that in executing this Final Account
Agreement it has placed no reliance on any statement, representation, or promise of the other Party, or
any other person or entity not expressly set forth herein, or upon the failure of any of the Parties or any
other person or entity to make any statement, representation or disclosure of anything whatsoever.
9.4
This Final Account Agreement shall be binding upon each of the Parties hereto and each of their
respective successors, legal representatives, and assigns.
9.5
Each of the Parties warrants and represents that it is fully entitled and duly authorized to enter
into and deliver this Final Account Agreement. In particular, and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, each of the Parties warrants and represents that it is fully entitled to enter into the covenants
and undertake the obligations set forth herein.
9.6
Each of the Parties warrants and represents that its representative signing this Final Account
Agreement possesses all necessary capacity and authority to execute this Final Account Agreement.
9.7
This Final Account Agreement is the final written expression and the complete and exclusive
statement of all the agreements, conditions, promises, representations, and covenants between the
Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous
agreements, negotiations, representations, understandings, and discussions between and among the
Parties, their respective representatives, and any other person or entity with respect to the subject
matter covered hereby.
9.8
This Final Account Agreement shall become effective on the date first above written.
9.9
Each of the Parties shall each bear his or its own respective legal fees, expenses and costs
incurred in connection with this Final Account Agreement (including fees, expenses and costs) and the
preparation, implementation and performance of this Final Account Agreement.
Signed by the Contractor

................................................Name

.....................................................Signature

................................................Capacity of Signatory

Contractor’s seal

Signed by the Subcontractor

................................................Name

.....................................................Signature

................................................Capacity of Signatory

Subcontractor’s seal

APPENDIX A
RELEASE OF LIENS, CLAIMS, EMCUMBRANCES AND DISCHARGE

RELEASE OF LIENS, CLAIMS AND ENCUMBRANCES AND DISCHARGE

REDCO INTERNATIONAL W.L.L, located at P.O. Box 16750, Doha, Qatar (hereinafter called the “2nd
Party”), has furnished labour materials, services and or equipment to ALYSJ Joint Venture (hereinafter
called the ALYSJ JV”) under Earthworks and Earth Moving at Al Sadd Stadium Station Agreement No.
M006-GDB-COM-AGR-00122 to the Qatar Railways Company (hereinafter called the “Employer”) for the
Gold Line Underground under Contract No RTC/040/2012 (hereinafter called the “Project”) at Doha,
Qatar.

The 2nd Party hereby, discharges, waives and releases any and all liens, claims and encumbrances that
may have or hereafter accrue on or against the ALYSJ JV and/or Employer and/or the Project on account
of labour materials, services and equipment furnished by the 2nd Party
The 2nd Party confirms that all labour, materials, services, licenses and equipment, performed or
supplied to date by or through the 2nd Party or incorporated in the Project are free from any claims,
liens, or encumbrances. The 2nd Party confirms that payment has been made or shall be made solely by
the 2nd Party to all persons working on the Project and entitled to compensation on said Project
including to all workmen, (sub) subcontractors, suppliers, labourers, and materialmen who may have
delivered materials or rented equipment to or performed work at or on behalf of the Project.
The 2nd Party shall and does hereby indemnify, save harmless, and defend the ALYSJ JV from and
against any and all liabilities, claims, damages, liens, or loses, penalties, fines, forfeitures, suits, and the
costs of expenses incident thereto (including all costs, professional and attorney’s fees) which the ALYSJ
JV may incur, or become responsible for, by reason of the filing of any claims, notices, liens,
encumbrances, suits against the Employer and/or the ALYSJ JV and/or the Project, whether or not
resulting from the negligence of the Employer and/or the ALYSJ JV, which in any way may arise out of, or
be incidental to, work undertaken or done under and/or pursuant to said Subcontract Agreement.

Signed: ______________________________ Date: ___________________________

Title:

_____________________________

APPENDIX B
FINAL ACCOUNT PRICE BREAKDOWN

All figures shown are in Qatari Riyals
Item

Description

1

SUBCONTRACT
Contract Value 8,140,296.68

6,025,817.65

2

Variation Orders

0.00

0.00

3

Dayworks

0.00

183,599.50

4

Commercial Settlement (435,866.68)
Sub-Total

Final Account

0.00

183,599.50

7,888,029.50

Final Account

Previously Paid Final Account Payment

2,114,479.03

(187,275.90)

5,838,541.75

(248,590.78)

2,049,487.75

Previously Paid Final Account Payment

Final Amount (Day work includ.) 7,888,029.50

5,838,541.75

Contra Charges (441,896.76)

(221,941.40)

7,446,132.74

(219,955.37)

5,618,586.39

1,827,546.36

Subcontract Retention (394,401.48)

(291,927.09)

Amount Due

7,051,731.27

5,326,659.30

(102,474.39)

1,725,071.97

ADD Subcontract Retention*

394,401.48

Total Amount Due including retention

2,119,473.44

Subject :

2,049,487.75

Use of Aluminium Composite Panels (ACP)

Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt, on 14 October 2018, of letter reference (1) whereby the Engineer
insists on requesting the Contractor to undertake an NFPA 285 test of all ACP façade assemblies without
issuing the necessary instruction. Whilst arguing that the Contractor has not fulfilled its contractual
obligation vis-à-vis the design, procurement, fabrication and installation of the ACP works, the Engineer
cites a number of generic Contract clauses without explaining their relevance to its new demand for
NFPA 285 compliance. For the record, the Contractor sets forth its response to the points raised by the
Engineer hereafter:
1.
The façade built by the Contractor is fit for the purpose intended in the Contract and satisfies
the performance requirements stipulated in the Specification.

2.

Compliance with NFPA 285 is not a performance requirement of the Specification.

3.
In item (e), the Engineer refers to a ‘general note’ included in the façade IFC Drawings. Firstly,
the Contractor records that this ‘general note’ is included in all architectural IFC Drawings and is not
exclusive to the façade. Secondly, the ‘general note’ cited by the Engineer relate to the G04 IFC
Drawings series which concern fire compartments only. The ACP façade package does not fall under the
fire rated areas defined in the fire compartmentation plan and therefore the Engineer’s citation of this
‘general note’ is irrelevant to this discussion. For the record, the fire compartmentation plan included in
the G04 IFC Drawing series was defined by the Design Consultant who elected to exclude the ACP façade
from fire rated areas.
4.
The Contractor queries the relevance of the Engineer’s citation of Clause 8.1.2 (a) of the
Conditions of Contract. The whole intent of this clause is to state that the processes of review carried
out by the Employer’s agents do not waive the Contractor’s obligations under the Contract. This issue
does not relate to any process of review, but to what it is included in the scope of the Contract. It is
reiterated that testing the ACP elements of the façade against NFPA 285 is not an obligation of the
Contractor because it is not required by the Contract.
5.
The Contractor is responsible for implementing the precise requirements of the Specification
only. The Fire Strategy Report is a live and high level document that explains the overall approach
towards the fire and life safety requirements of the Project. This document can only be issued to the
Contractor as ‘for information only’ because the Contractor does not have the right to change the design
produced by the Employer’s agents. Moreover, since 2014 the Contractor has conveyed and maintained
its position that neither undertaking a design verification exercise of each revision of the Fire Strategy
Report nor producing amended/updated IFC documentation were its responsibilities.
6.
Notwithstanding point 5 above, the Contractor confirms that not even in any of the multiple
revisions of the Fire Strategy Report a reference is made to NFPA 285.
7.
The Contractor shall be responsible for the design, procurement and fabrication of the façade
defined in the Contract and in the Specification. The constructed façade is non-fire rated because the
performance requirements defined by the Design Consultants in the IFC documents and in the
Specifications did not require the façade to be fire-rated. It is reiterated that the Contractor shall satisfy
requirements of the Specification but shall not change the design intent of the façade aimed by the
Design Consultants.
The Contractor trusts its position in relation to its contractual obligations is clear. However, should the
Engineer require the Contractor to procure the services of a laboratory to undertake NFPA 285 tests of
large scale samples of all types of ACP façade assemblies, please be reminded that this will be additional
scope to the Contract and therefore will require an Engineer’s Instruction to be issued pursuant to
Clause 20.1.1 (b) of the Conditions of Contract. Upon receipt of the Engineer’s Instruction, the
Contractor will compile its cost and programme impact proposals for the Engineer’s and Employer’s
agreement as required by Clauses 2.29, 2.30 and 2.31 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment
Number 8.
Yours faithfully,
