
Dear Sir,
We are pleased to confirm that ALYSJ JV intends to enter into a Consultancy Agreement with OMIKRON
KAPPA Consulting SA to carry out Structural Reinforcement Design Services for Stations' Subways &
Entrances for Qatar Integrated Railway Project (QIRP) - Gold Line Underground in accordance to the
terms and conditions stated in this Letter of Intent.

We instruct you to proceed on the basis outlined below. Any further work to be instructed under this
Letter of Intent shall be given in writing by ALYSJ JV.

Price (Fee)

The price (Fee) lump sum of QAR 4,500,000 (Qatari Riyals Four Million Five Hundred Thousand Riyals
Only) and is based on OMIKRON KAPPA Consulting SA commerc ial proposal under letter reference 1).

In addition, we hereby confirm that the price (Fee) will be paid to the Consultant in accordance with the
following payment schedule:

Ras Bu Abboud Subway & Entrance

OAR 450,000

National Museum of Qatar Subways & Entrances
Joaan Entrances

QAR 950,000

OAR 650,000

Al Sudan Subway & Entrances

OAR 500,000

Al Waab Subway & Entrances

QAR 500,000

Sport City Subway & Entrances QAR 950,000
Al Aziziyah Subway & Entrances QAR 500,000
Total

QAR 4,500,000

Terms and Conditions

1.
Fully inclusive of all items necessary to provide Structural Reinforcement Design Services for
Qatar Integrated Railway Project (QIRP) - Gold Line Underground and in the Standard Form of

Conditions of Contract, the Appendices and all other documents referred to in the Consultancy
Agreement.

ALYSJ
joint venture

2.
OMIKRON KAPPA Consulting SA is required to plan its working hours to meet the project
schedule as agreed with ALYSJ JV.

Quality and Work Specification

All works to fully comply with the specifications and standards as defined in the Main Contract, all of
which were detailed and included in the Consultancy Agreement. The Consultant confirms it has full
knowledge of the Main Contract (MC) entered between ALYSJ JV and the Qatar Railways Company,
reference RTC/040/2012.The Consultant shall not do or omit to do anything, or cause anything to be
done or omitted to be done, which may in any way:

Render the Contractor in breach of his obligations under the Main Contract;
Hinder or prevent the Contractor in the performance of its obligations under the Main Contract; or
Hinder or prevent the Contractor's ability to seek an Entitlement (MC) or make a Claim (MC).

Programme of Works

The dates for the commencement and closing of the works is as below. However the exact programme
of works shall be agreed between the parties and shall be incorporated into the Consultancy Agreement.

Commencement Date Completion Date

: 30 June 2016
: to be agreed

Upon receipt of this Letter of Intent, the Consultant must commence with the Structural Reinforcement
Design Services for Qatar Integrated Railway Project (QIRP) - Gold Line Underground.

Terms of Payment

The Consultant shall issue Interim Payment Applications (Statements) at the end of each month based
on monthly progress measure. The ALYSJ JV will review, correct if so required and certify the Statement
within 7 days and payment shall be made within a further 21 days of the issuance of the payment
certificate .

We trust the above is all as agreed in our recent negotiations, and is the basis on which we propose to
enter into a formal Consultancy Agreement. In the event that the formal Consultancy Agreement is not
signed within 30 days from the date of this letter (or such longer period as may be agreed between us in
writing before expiry of such 30 day period), we shall pay for the value of works completed in
accordance with this Letter of Intent from the date of your acknowledgement of this letter up to the end
of such period.

The intended Consultancy Agreement will apply retrospectively once concluded. The ruling language of
this Letter of Intent and all documents compr ising it shall be the English language and it shall be
governed by the Law of the State of Qatar.

Yours faithfully
