
Subject: value Engineering Item MEP-19 {HVAC Hydronic ABS Piping) Realization of MEP 19 Value
Engineering Item
Dear Sir,
We refer to Engineer's letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-lTR-01126 dated 02 February 2014 and respond
as
follows.
We reject the Engineer's notion that the risk of using ABS pipes is a matter associated with means and
methods, and therefore a Contractor responsibility. The Engineer failed to acknowledge clearly
identified
issues and the responsibility for such design decisions. We provided abundant engineering ass.essments
to
show that the Specified Material is inappropriate and would be cause for serious performance issues
and
we reassert our rebuttal of the Engineer's opinion that a hybrid plastic/steel system "would perform
any·
different to an all ERW steel system". _,.
We have provided a notice of Design Error pursuant to Conditions of Contract clause 12.1.6 (k) an.d
require .
the Engineer to take the corrective actions to resolve the matter by issuing a fully detailed design
solution ·· ·· •. ~
that may be implemented by the Contractor. It is surprising that Engineer would seek to exploi~ a failure
: .... r
to design a hybrid Hydronic piping system as an opportunity for further value engineering price
reduction
and to penalize the Contractor when the Employer is responsible for performance.
•ol 1 '1
The Engineer is advised that other tenderers questioned the suitability of the ABS piping solution. We '
refer you to Tender Query RFC-007 issued as part of Tender Bulletin 20 that posed the question: "Please
~, · · ·
confirm whether ABS is suitable for hydronic piping." We note that the Answer to RFC-007 neglected to
respond to the last part of the query (repeated above). •
We remind the Engineer again that the design of the Value Engineering Items is an Employer · ' · •
responsibility. We contend that had the Engineer acted in accordance with the express obligations of the
Conditions of Contract clause 9.7.1, the Employer would be required to issue Drawings to establish such
hybrid pipe design. Having failed to implement the Value Engineering Item design in an appropriate
manner, the Contractor has no option than to revert to the base Contract Works.
Notwithstanding the above, and the further value engineering "opportunity'' sought by the Engineer, we
hereby notify that the Employer is not entitled for any cost savings as a result of the change of the pipe
to ERW steel. We refer the Engineer to Tender Bulletins OS and 09 queries no. 70 and 68 respectively
(reproduced and enclosed in Attachment A).

The Tender Bulletins referenced above show that the Employer agreed that ERW pipe is "as equal" to
the
steel pipe specified in the Specification 232113. As such ERW pipe need not be written into the'
Specification to allow the Contractor to use ERW pipes. Since ERW pipe is allowable under the base
Contract documents, the Employer is not entitled to a value engineering saving for the same.
Find enclose RFVO no. RFV0/0401/0222 to revert the Value Engineering Item to the original
Specification
and return the unjustified Value Engineering Item value to the Contractor.
We look forward to your expedient issuance of a Variation Order for the above.
Yours faithfully,
