Subject:Re: Projected Final Account of AGC-A's Scope of Sub-Contract Works
Dear Sir,

With reference to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) referenced (1) above and your letter
referenced (2) above, wherein you have submitted a projected final account, we hereby provide our
contractual position in regards to the content of your said letter.
For the avoidance of doubt and ease of reference, we would like to clarify that the Subcontractor’s total
costs incurred up to and including 31st October 2017 have been settled and agreed via the MOU.
Pursuant to Clause A1 of the MOU, the payment for all assessed total Costs incurred post 31st October
2017 will be released on an on-account basis to the Subcontractor subject to assessment and
verification. In this regard, we are of the opinion that the projected final account being tabled in your
letter referenced (2) is not realistic.
We note your comments regarding the volume of changes which you allege, have created a situation
where it has been extremely difficult for you to capture them on an ongoing basis. However, we put on
record that the volume of changes have actually been and are being considered under Variations
submitted to the Engineer by us, for which we have had no assistance from you and have been prepared
and submitted on your behalf. We have also submitted on your behalf, a number of Variations which
were included in your submitted list of “Variations in Progress” and we note that the amounts presented
in your list are heavily inflated.
In light of the aforementioned, you are hereby requested to submit all ‘Variations in Progress” and
“Other Claims” immediately, according but not limited to Clause A5 of the MOU which states that you
agree “To assist and support the Contractor where reasonably required to do so, in claiming,
substantiating or supporting time impacts and costs…”.
You are reminded that all variations and the mentioned costs are subject to the Engineer’s approval and
your assistance in substantiating and recovering these sums is essential. The relevant clauses in the
MOU in regards to this matter state the following:
Clause A7 – “Parties will act in good faith to recover the additional payments to be released to the
Subcontractor beyond the Subcontract Sum (including but not limited to the omitted and de-scoped
elements therein) from the Employer”.
Clause A8 – “In case the recoverable amount from the Employer would not be adequate to compensate
these Non-Contractual Payments to Complete the Subcontract Works, the Subcontractor will be liable
for these and the Contractor will have right to recover any and all excess amounts from the
Subcontractor…”
In view of the above Clauses, we reiterate that your assistance is essential and will, in fact, work in your
favor. This is due to the fact that in case the mentioned amounts are not recovered from the Employer,
they shall be recovered from your account.
With respect to your comments about the prolongation costs, please note that all related costs have
been audited and submitted to the Engineer on your behalf including, a Time Impact Analysis which to
date you have failed to submit, under the Extension of Time (EOT) and Prolongation Cost Claim. In
addition to this, we also put on record that we have completed an assessment of your EOT &
prolongation costs and note that the values included in your submission are heavily inflated compared
to our assessment. Kindly be reminded that a letter reference MTB/TCA/ALGHURAIR/L/001050 dated
14th June 2018 regarding your prolongation cost submission has been issued to you, providing further
comments on this matter in which you are required to respond accordingly.

Moreover, your attention is drawn to Clause A4 of the MOU which states that the Subcontractor agrees
“To pass on any and all rights for all claims, disputes and Variations to the Contractor […] for events that
may have occurred prior to or after the MOU Effective Date, in relation with the Subcontract Works”. In
view of the above, it is noted that the figures presented in your aforesaid letter are for values you have
forfeited your rights to claim under the signed MOU. Kindly be reminded that only actual assessed costs
incurred shall be claimed/recovered under the MOU, as per Clause A1 of the MOU.
Furthermore, be informed that the progress made in terms of substantiation of the variations and actual
costs has not been sufficient. With reference to the Clauses under the MOU, we reiterate that the
monthly on-account payments to be released are based on the assessment of the actual costs incurred
each month. It is a prerequisite under the MOU that these costs must be sufficiently substantiated to
enable the release of the payments, accordingly. However, we put on record that there are a lot of
discrepancies between our assessed values and your application values due to the lack of information
submitted by you. You are therefore requested to submit all outstanding information related to
substantiating your actual costs incurred until the end of May 2018 so we can close and agree on the
cumulative costs from November 2017 up to May 2018.
Please note that your comments that the BIM system has created many problems are refuted. You are
reminded that a comprehensive BIM implementation plan (in addition to the project’s existing BIM
Specification ref. 019800) has been provided and signed by you as part of the Subcontract Agreement,
confirming your understanding of the same. Therefore, your statement is completely rejected as it
represents your lack of knowledge in the Project and involvement in this regard. Moreover, we note the
following:
1. You have been invited in multiple BIM meetings since the start of the project, which you have not
attended most of them;
2. You have provided multiple models for our review which our BIM team have reviewed and provided
advice and comments;
3. Many BIM-related correspondences have been sent to you including highlights of your poor
performance, delays, and responsibilities.
To conclude, with reference to the MOU please be informed that there is no contractual basis for your
request for an on-account payment as per your letter referenced (2) above. We trust that the MOU is
clear regarding the sums paid up to 31st October 2017 and thereafter. In light of the foregoing, your
request for an on-account payment as per your letter referenced (2) is hereby rejected.
We look forward to your confirmation of the above and your continued support in this regard.
Yours faithfully,
