
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer's Assistant's ("EA") request for further particulars at references 1, 3, 5, 6 and 8,
the Contractor hereby provides a detailed response in tabulated format in Attachment 1 together with
Attachment 2 to this letter.

ALYSJ
joint venture

It is anticipated that this response I information tabulated in Attachment 1 addresses the further
particulars requested by the EA. However , should further justified and pertinent questions remain with
the EA, the Contractor will reply to these at that juncture.

It is noted that the EA has provided within reference 8 (at items 6 and 7 of page 1 of 3) its response to
the general principles of the claim. Item 6 states: "The Engineer's Instruction No.53 is not a 'Variation' as
defined in Sub-Clause 1. 1.6. 17." Item 7 further states: ''The timing of the Engineer's Instruction No.53
did not cause delay". At this juncture the Contractor would remind the EA to take due cognizance of the
fact that a lapse of 7 months from the date of the Contractor's RFI No.60 dated 23 September 2014 to
the issue of Engineer's Instruction No.53 dated 6 April 2015 (reference 18) instructing the Contractor to
accommodate the TPS requirements.

Unfortunately, the EA responses on the general principles of the claim are not accompanied by any
detailed comments and reasoned argument as to why the EA has arrived as such negative conclusions.
The EA is reminded of the requirements of General Condition ("GC") 20.1.8 of Volume 3 of the Contract
which states "... the Engineer will respond with approval, or with disapproval and detailed comments.
He may also request any further particular s, but shall nevertheless give his response on the principles of
the claim within such time: (emphasis added). It is clear from this wording , that the response on the
principles of the claim must be accompanied by the EA's detailed comments as to how the EA has
arrived at its conclusion(s).

Nevertheless, the Contractor takes this opportunity of completely refuting the EA's aforement ioned
responses on the principles of the claim and refer the EA back to the Contractor's Initial Formal Interim
Claim submission (Revision 0) dated 27th May 2015 (reference 16) which provides reasoned agreement
and comprehensive evidence as to (1) why Engineer's Instruction No.53 is a Variation pursuant to GC
1.1.6.17 and (2) how the said instruction has caused delay to the Contractor.

Yours faithfully,
