Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0248
Delays to Wet Chemical Cylinder Works due to Non-Completion of Works by the Employer’s Other
Contractor
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The failures of the Employer’s Other Contractor to complete its works located at the Tenant areas to CP
Level 2.0 and Level 3.0, is delaying and preventing us from completing the Wet Chemical Cylinder
Works.
Potential Impact
Acts of prevention on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.

ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Background
We remain concerned that numerous delays have been and continue to be encountered, associated
with the completion of Wet Chemical Cylinder (WCC) Works, due to the non-completion of works (i.e.
structural works) by the Employer’s Other Contractor, at the Tenant’s areas to CP Level 2.0 and Level
3.0.
In this regard, our mechanical works Subcontractor (M/s PCE JV), has written on this event, attaching a
letter from their subcontractor (NAFFCO) notifying us of “delay and / or disruption … due to the
constraints such as … works [of others] hindering the installation of wet chemical cylinders in L2.0 and
L.3” and their right to claim the associated time and/or cost impacts arising therefrom. A copy of PCE
JV’s letter and attachment (ref: 1), is attached at Annex B hereto for your information. Notably, the
attached letter from NACO provides photographic evidence illustrating the areas where they are unable
to complete their works due to the non-completion of works by the Employer’s Other Contractor;
despite the fact that the relevant No Objection Certificates (NOC) have been issued by you, permitting
and enabling us to access the respective areas.
It is therefore evidently clear that we are prevented from completing the installation of the WCC Works
in the relevant Tenant areas located at Level 2.0 and Level 3.0, due to the activities or inaction by
Others; hence the issuance of this E-Notice. Therefore, unless and until the Employer’s Other Contractor
completes their works and provide access to these areas, then we are prevented from completing the
installation of the WCC.
These acts of prevention on the part of Others were entirely avoidable but have both delayed and
disrupted our progress. In view of this, then we maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions
of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an
extension to the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event described in letter
ref: (2).
If such acts of prevention continue, then this will continue to impact upon Testing and Commissioning
which will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this
has the potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
We therefore request your urgent action as applicable to resolve the matters noted above in order to
mitigate delay and/or disruption to the Works. This may take the form of urging the Employer’s Other
Contractor to urgently complete their works and/or provide access, to enable us to complete the
installation of the WCCs.
Yours faithfully,
