Subject: Recovery of Overhead & Profit and Attendance Due to the Omission of Defined Provisional Sum
for Hotel Fit Out
Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
We write in response to your letter reference (1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).
We have recently reiterated the basis of the Contractor's legal entitlement to damages for the improper
omission of works in letter reference (4) in relation to Beam Seating. The legal basis for the recovery of
omitted Defined Provisional Sum works is the same. In addition to the arguments that the Engineer
raised in relation to Beam Seating, the Engineer further references (1) contractual language defining the
term "Defined Provisional Sum" to claim
that the Engineer has the right omit such work, without the requirement to compensate the Contractor,
for whatever reasons including to award that work to other contractors. The contractual definitions
simply restate the generic definition of "provisional sum" as is recognised in the construction industry.
There is nothing in these definitions that permits the Engineer to violate principles of good-faith. Rather,
just like the definition of "Variation", these provisions only contemplate genuine omissions and not, ·as
in the case here, to omit works in order to award that work to other contractor(s). Indeed, it is very wellestablished that this language does not permit the Engineer to award such work to other contractors.1
The Engineer further states that "[t]here is no basis within the General Conditions of Contract for
compensating TCAJV on presumptions that they may make regarding the Employer's intent." It is
uncertain what is meant by this. The Defined Provisional Sum works at here are essential to the
completion of the Works. Therefore, if they have not been instructed to the Contactor, the
Engineer/Employer must instruct another contractor to execute these works.
The Engineer has failed to consider the true meaning of this language in considering the Contractor's
entitlement and, therefore, has not discharged its obligations under the Contract

The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours faithfully,
