Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation
Dear Sir,
In response to your referenced letter (2) and other numerous correspondences exchanged between us
in regards to available work-fronts, we respond as follows.

Please rest assured that we have been and continue to be available at all times to ensure good
communication for the smooth progression of the works. Kindly be informed that, we as the Contractor,
have no intention of alleging or stating inaccurate facts as mentioned in your letter reference (2).
We hereby inform you that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (1) above. In general, your letter reference (2), does not provide clarity and/or resolution. In
our letter reference (1) we have used your own submitted progress report as of 22nd February 2018 to
extract the information for the available work-fronts.
We acknowledge your contractual right to advise us of any (if any) circumstances causing delays;
however, you also have the contractual responsibility to comply with the conditions of the Subcontract
and ensure that there are available resources on-site, all mitigation measures have been taken and
works are progressing without delay and are completed on time. Once again we inform you that we
have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the works and you have the obligation to ensure for
the same.
In view of the above, you have been instructed to provide an action plan providing mitigation measures
in accordance with Clause 16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays] which is yet to be submitted. Also, you are
requested once again, to coordinate your works in a proper sequence by means of continuous
communication with our construction team and other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely completion
of the works.
In regards to your comments made under CP L3.0 and CP L2.0 in your said letter, be informed as stated
above, that these comments do not provide any justification and/or resolution. On the other hand, the
comments are actually an admittance that there are indeed enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed with the works. The fact for example, that your comments under CP L3.0, state that the
quantity of available work-fronts is allegedly 4,438m2 instead of 4,996m2 as stated in our letter
reference (1), it is basically indicating that there is an area of 4,438m2 ready for you to commence with
your works. Even if we accept your stated quantity, it is evident that there are indeed enough open
areas to proceed. Moreover, your comments that areas are obstructed from other trades are refuted.
Hence, please be informed that the same principles stated above with respect to the quantities,
available work-fronts, also apply to your comments under CP L2.0, which consequently similarly apply to
your comment about the materials in stock.
Generally, you seem to allege in many instances in your letters about the lack of work-fronts. However,
please be informed that once the screed works are completed and the curing period of fourteen (14)
days has passed, you are required to immediately proceed with the stone installation. In many
instances, you have failed to proceed expeditiously and without delay and due to your failure, other
trades had proceeded accordingly to commence with their works. Therefore, you are requested to take
appropriate action and proceed immediately once the screed is ready for stone installation. To ensure
compliance of the aforementioned you will need to methodically plan your works and coordinate with
us and the other trades as per your contractual obligation pursuant but not limited to Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors].
In view of the above, you are instructed to ensure that all available resources, particularly manpower
are available on site. Therefore, please assign adequate manpower to recover your own delays and
provide us the current progress and anticipated completion dates for your works.

We acknowledge that the Subcontract Completion date has passed and we reiterate once again that the
Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion and your prolongation costs submissions are subject to
the Engineer’s determination. Consequently, a response will be provided once the Engineer provides its
Determination and/or a response to the same.
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.
Yours faithfully,
