
Dear Sir,

The Engineer's Assistant has reviewed Contractor's letter and attached Proposed Strategy for Mock- Ups
as referenced above and provides the following response.

For the Contractor to ensure that all scope obligations under the Contract are facilitated and adhered to,
the Contractor is reminded to review and consider the entire Contract including Volume 3 General
Conditions of Contract and all Employer Requirements that include (but not limited to) Volume 4 (as
noted in Contractor's letter referenced above) and other relevant obligations and requirements as
detailed in Volume 6.

The Contractor shall also include:
"that all technical requirements, coordination with stakeholders and authorizations of each station are
to be verified, designed, pursued and attained by the DB contractor. The DB contractor will assume all
design responsibility for each station as per the Employers Requirement."
as required in Volume 6. Section 12.

The Contractor's strategy although providing a general dialogue on mock-up and material strategy has
failed overall in considering Contractor's entire obligations and co-ordination requirements in delivering:

a)
High quality materials typically appropriate for mass transport systems that includes safety.
economy, durability, aesthetics and mainta1nab1lity - and
b)
A sustainable built environment that minimizes ecological, cultural and economic impacts while
addressing the specific regional needs and environment of Qatar.

It is noted that item b) above 1s directly linked to Contractor's obligated adherence to the Global
Sustainability and Assessment System GSAS. previously emphasized to Contractor in other
correspondence.

We note your amenability to a collaborative approach however the Contractor has yet to demonstrate
within his strategy how this co-ordination of materials and finishes shall be coordinated with other civil
works and with the works of other Project Contractors.

Contractor is to note Volume 3, sub-clause 7.2.1 where Contractor is required to submit samples of
materials, such as manufacturer's standard samples of materials and samples specified in the Contract
and any additional samples as instructed by the Engineer. This requirement will be at Contractor 's cost.
The provision of mock-ups that allow for the material review and selection process is within the

egis rail

LB ER JV

Contractor's Lump Sum price therefore no Engineer's Instruction is required for Contractor to progress
and deliver accordingly.

The submitted strategy makes reference to a "progress assurance process" yet fails to actually define or
elaborate the scope of this "process". The strategy lacks sufficient detail to specific activity time lines
and durations in providing details for a co-ordinated planned approach to include Employer, Engineer's
Assistant and other Project Contractors interface and reviews. However we note that you have attached

a simplistic schedule with your submission, which is taken from your 'Front-of-House' Design Plan,
showing a timeline for the material approvals between 05 July 2015 and 02 October 2015. Being that it
is now already the end of July 2015 we are greatly concerned that you have already fallen behind your
submitted schedule and are already in delay. We therefore put you on notice of default for this highly
critical activity.

Additionally there are more than 300 items which should be approved, and in the required strategy
contractor will have to explain, referring to the branding manual:

How the process will be managed in an effic ient manner, by selecting the most important and relevant
items, and describing the different stages to come to a conclusion with the final mock- ups;
When validation steps will be undertaken, considering that contractor will have to describe a retroplanning from the implementation of the first items, back to the design and procurement process
including time needed for the client to accept the proposals.

The Engineer's Assistant requires the Contractor to submit a revised Mock-up and Material Approval
Strategy that ensures all requirements are fully understood and detailed in accordance with the
requirements of the Contract. For tracking the progress of this critical activity a detailed schedule for the
entire mock-up and material approval process shall be attached to the revised strategy.

This revised strategy must be submitted within fourteen (14) days from receipt of this letter. We loo
forward to your positive focus and response to the above.

Yours faithfully,
