Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s direction of letter reference 3) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”)
13.2.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith full particulars in relation to the
additional mock-up facility works pursuant to its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

With respect to the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 1), second paragraph, it is hereby noted that
the amount of QR 4 mios had been proposed by the Contractor on a strictly ‘rough order of magnitude’
basis, and, with the information that was available at the time.

The letter of reference 4) made plain that “items 2 & 5 require further detailed clarification of scope as
some rough assumptions have been made to cover the Architectural finishing”. Moreover, the said
letter made no allowance for costs against the O&M requirement for two (2) years, which was conveyed
to the Contractor at a later date via letter reference 3).

Clearly therefore, the Contractor was never party to nor did it provide its consent to the development of
such an alleged ‘expenditure cap’ of QR 4 mios for the whole of the works.

It is further noted that the informal receipt of scope changes / additions by the Contractor continues to
this date and consequently, the Bill of Quantities enclosed herewith via attachment 1) consists of an

interim cost submission only, pending the receipt of cost particulars in relation to the following
requirements:

1.

Boundary fencing

2.

Entrance gates

3.

Architectural lighting

4.

Various demolition works for concrete works at major stations mock up external areas

5.

Fabric ceiling and secondary steel support

6.
areas

Plasterboard ceiling at PSD mock up area, plasterboard partitions and wall cladding in various

7.

Access ramp to rolling stock and LRT, mock ups

8.
Removal and replacement of cladding and roller shutter required for LRT entry at mock up
facility
9.

Replacement of toilet partitions at public facilities

10.

Hardscape works in all areas

The proposed, interim adjustment of the Contract Price is therefore of the net amount of QR
9,328,372.11 as detailed in the Bill of Quantities of attachment 1). The Contractor reserves its rights to
recover any time related costs in connection to this proposed Variation which shall be addressed under
a separate cover.

Yours faithfully,
