Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s direction of reference 1) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.2.1 of
Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith full particulars in relation to the varied
scope, quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

The Contractor’s quotation of attachment 1) includes the requirements associated with the Emergency
Escape Staircase and the Fireman’s Lift pop-up which have been relocated in close proximity to the
Entrance Shelter.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor notes that the quotation of attachment 1) makes provision
for works up to ground floor level, and does not include any of the superstructure pop-up works. The
quotation against those will be submitted under a separate cover once the design has been further
developed.

Moreover, a provision has been incorporated for an additional 3m wide fire-protected escape tunnel to
run alongside the station box at concourse level leading to the relocated Emergency Escape Staircase
and Fireman’s lift.

The structure has been optimized in order to minimize the impact on underground utilities.
Notwithstanding such optimization however, the impact to the underground Ooredoo cable running
adjacent to the structure cannot be avoided in which case the Contractor shall seek a separate
Instruction pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.7.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract., .

As a consequence of enlarging the structure of the station, the revised building dimension encroaches
the temporary facility location leaving the Contractor with no option but to proceed with an overall rearrangement of the cabins (two of which shall be relocated to a new laydown area 1km away from the
Joaan station) and sundry temporary building structures.. Furthermore, tower crane 1 will need to be
replaced by a larger capacity tower crane in a new location.

This quotation allows for the relocation of Joaan station cabins, enabling works at new office and
laydown area, installation of new cabins, site running costs at new compound, civil works, architectural
BoH and MEP works.. The Contractors quotation has been broken down accordingly. The scope of works
is defined by the attached Bills of Quantities and following qualifications.

Qualifications.
• Design costs have not been considered in the quotation of attachment 1). Instead, the Contractor has
enclosed via attachment 2) the anticipated design cost of QAR 530,062 on account of its Lead Designer
and reserves its rights to recover any further design expenses (plus overhead and profit) potentially
incurred by its other design consultants.
• The quotation is inclusive of works below ground level only, and no provision has been made for
reinstatement of hard and soft landscaping. • A provisional Sum in the amount of QRS.1,461,000 has
been included for the associated MEP works.

However, no consideration has been made for any plant and equipment enhancement should they not
have
sufficient capacity to cater for the power requirements of the additional items. The items include, but
not
limited to, AHU’s, chillers, fan coil units, fans, electrical and fire panel boards, cables pumps and BACS
system.
• No provision for traffic permits nor police escort for cabin relocation has been recognized.
• No recognition for a potential programme impact associated with the variation works.
• A provisional cost had been allowed for the mini bus, as the utilization at present is unknown.

At present, the proposed adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of QAR 3,625,339.52 as
detailed in attachment 1). The Contractor reserves its rights to recover any time related costs in
connection to this Variation which shall be addressed under a separate cover.

Yours faithfully,
