
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 13.2.1, the Engineer's Assistant directs the Contractor to submit a quotation,
providing a detailed breakdown of cost savings for which the Contractor would carry out the proposed
Variation. The quotation is to be based upon the following Engineer's Instruction, which is currently
under review for process and issue to the Contractor .

Details of the Instruction under review are:

""The Employers Requirements Volume 6 Section 11, Design Specifications Sub-Clause 4.6.25 b)
currently state that:

"Based on these calculations, the minimum clear width of such passageways , whether elevated or
underground, shall be no less than 10 m. This does not include areas of low mobility near to vertical
surfaces such as walls, railings or balustrades. For these areas, an additional width of 0.25 m must be
deducted per surface from the overall width to arrive at the absolute clear width for the passageway."

Volume 6 Section 11, Design Specifications Sub-Clause 4.6.25 b) is now amended:
To reflect an optimization outcome where the minimum clear width of passageways whether elevated
or underground is reduced to 6.80 metres. (excluding event stations)

The potential minimum width allowable at each station is as shown in Attachment A, Summary
Presentation of Required Passageway Widths, attached to this Instruction. Contractor is to note that:

•

This does not include for finishes which should be assumed as +1.0m

•

Width of passageway is the clear width between the two (2) clad facades of the passageway

•
Width of walkway is the usable width of the walkway between the two (2) travellators or the
travellators and the wall - depending upon layout.

Stations, where the minimum width has already been agreed with Other parties or where design and
construction may have advanced to the stage where reverting minimum width is no longer feasible,
shall be considered on a case by case basis.

Contractor is instructed to implement the requirements to ensure the best possible optimization in
design and installation is carried out.""

In support of the above detail, the Engineer's Assistant also includes the document referenced as
Attachment A Key Plans for Width of Passageways along with a specific Table as extracted from
Attachment A

The Engineer's Assistant requires Contractor to review the above details, ensure that the appropriate
requirements are being implemented into current design outcomes and to submit the detailed cost
savings breakdown within fourteen (14) days of this direction.

Yours faithfully,
