Subject:

Re: Notice to Correct

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) above regarding the lack of progress on site and the
notice to correct sent to you previously. We refute your comments that you have increased the
manpower and we put on record that the number of your manpower on the dates mentioned in your
letter is incorrect. The actual manpower on site was as follows:
•
•
•

26-April-2018 – 53 manpower;
03-May-2018 – 41 manpower;
07-May-2018 – 31 Manpower.

The fact that you have not increased your manpower to the required level and you have not taken any
measures to mitigate delays, after our numerous notifications, is a failure of your Subcontract
obligations and will not be tolerated.
We also put on record the following:
•
The glass door installation is falling behind the schedule;
•
No mock up / bench mark has been approved to date;
•
Nothing on site in regards to your doors installation is ready for final inspection;
•
The progress of Portal installation in Pier 3 Hold room is very low;
•
We have not received any portal installation in Pier 1 & 2 Gatehouses;
•
In Pier 1 & 2 there are many steel portals ready to be installed but you have not proceeded due
to your lack of manpower.
You are therefore instructed to increase your resources to the required level and ensure that the works
are progressing without delay and are completed on time.
In regards to your comments about the abortive works please note that as per Specification 084126 [ALL
GLASS WALLS, RAILINGS, AND DOORS] Section 1.9-A [PROJECT CONDITIONS] “Field Measurements:
Verify actual locations of walls and other construction contiguous with all-glass assemblies by field
measurements before fabrication and indicate measurements on Shop Drawings”. Therefore, as
described above, the field measurements are a Contract requirement and since your works were found
not to be aligned due to your failure to comply accordingly, you are obligated to comply with our
instructions and rectify respectively without additional cost to us.
In view of the above, please be informed that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like
incurred by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the
aforementioned activities will be solely your responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3
[Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
