Abu

Subject : Claim Process
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1}, (2}, {3} and (4} wherein the Contractor has
stated its disagreement with the Engineer's correspondence regarding the Contractor's failure to abide
by the contractual requirements in relation to its obligation to submit delay notices, full details and
particulars as well as a Time Impact Analysis within the required timeframe in Clause 27.1 of the
Conditions of Contract.
The Contractor's assertion that it is the Engineer's and/or the Employer's obligation to identify "the
delays" is erroneous and contractually unsupported. Clause 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract
clearly establish the Contractor's obligations regarding the claim process and the required timeframes
which need to be complied with.
The Contractor's attempt in correspondence {3} to pass the responsibility of its own fai lure to comply
with Clauses 27.1 and 27.2 to the Engineer is rejected. The Contractor's excuse that it has not complied
with the Contract as a result of the changes incurred in the Project is not valid. We reiterate our position
in correspondence (6) in respect to this issue. Furthermore, we record that the Contractor has never
requested the relaxation of the timeframe
requirements specified in the above stated Clauses. Pursuant to Clause 9.1.2 of the Conditions of
Contract, the rights and remedies of either Party under the Contract may only be waived by formal

written waiver which is signed by a duly authorized representative. The Contractor is therefore
requested to evidence that it has requested the Employer's rights under Clause 27.1 and 27.2 to be
waived and that such waiver has been provided.
The Contractor's statement regarding the alleged failure of the Engineer to honour its obligations with
respect to the Contractor's claims is also rejected. The Contractor refers to correspondence {7) and {9)
to
support its allegation against the Engineer. The Engineer reiterates the contents of its correspondence
{8) and {10).
Furthermore, the Contractor's statement that the Engineer has not provided detailed comments on the
Contractor's submission for EOT 2 is unfounded. The Contractor is referred to correspondence {11), {12)
and {13) where the Engineer communicated the identified deficiencies of the Contractor's EOT2
submission and requested the Contractor to address them. The Contractor was requested to assess,
audit and determine its Subcontractors Costs instead of passing their claims to the Engineer and also to
provide the required concurrency analysis. For the record, the Contractor to date has failed to adhere to
these obligations.
The Contractor also purports that the Engineer has failed to issue an interim extension of time against
its
EOT2 claim. However, and as previously communicated via {14) the Contractor has not provided the
required evidence of compliance with Clause 16.5.2, 27.1 and 27.2 of the Conditions of Contract.
Therefore, until such time as the Contractor evidences otherwise, it is deemed to have waived its rights
for additional time and/or cost under the Contract.
In light of the above, it is apparent that the Contractor has systematically and continuously have failed
to
adhere to its Contractual obligations with regards to its claim submissions.
Yours faithfully,
