
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 2) whereby the Engineer's Assistant requested a quotation and
programme for the design and construction of a pedestrian Underpass between Joaan station and the Al
Sadd mall complex.

Further to the Engineer's Assistant's request and the Contractor's submission under letter reference 1),
the Contractor hereby submits a more detailed and complete quotation for the proposed pedestrian
Underpass between Joaan station and the Al Sadd mall complex.

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes and utility diversion
design costs as detailed in Append ix 1 attached herewith is QAR 2,138,389.54.

The estimated costs for the civil, structural, MEP and architectural finishes designs have been calculated
with reference to the Lead & MEP Designer's and on Architectural Finishes Designer's quotations which
are enclosed herewith as Appendix6) and 7).

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectura l finishes and utility
diversion construction costs as detailed in Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 attached herewith is QAR
17,072,090.97.

The estimated MEP and architectural finishes construction costs have been calculated on the basis of
the information provided for Provisional Sums in Volume 2 Part 2 [Commercial Proposal] of the
Contract, .as it is not possible at this time to provide a more accurate cost for these items.

The programme for the design and build of the new pedestrian underpass can only be provided when all
necessary outstanding information will become available.

In summary therefore:
•

The design cost is estimated at QAR 2,138,389.54

•

The construction cost is estimated at QAR 17,072,090.97

•
A programme necessarily requires the preceding information to be complete and can be
provided as soon as the designs are adequately advanced.

The estimated structural, civil, MEP, architectural finishes and utility relocation design and construction
cost is provided for budgeting purposes only, and it does not include any other additional cost that may
arise as a consequence of a late Instruction, such as the cost of rework or abortive design, especially for
the Joaan station concourse level. These costs (if any) will be addressed under separate cover.

We remain at your disposa l for any further information and/or clarification. Yours faithfully,
