Dear Sir

The contractor is writing with reference to the withholding of payment of the Preliminary Milestones
until the Workers camp is erected. The situation is not in accordance with the milestone payment
schedule and the Contractor will detail below where it states that this item does not form any part of
the milestones being withheld.

Volume 2 part 2, Commercial Proposal, clause 9.2.1 Schedule of payments, section 1 for General
preliminaries contains details of all preliminary milestones. In milestones PLMS05a to 20b it states they
include V2P2 section of work references. These references B1 to D7 highlight the items covered by these
milestones which include the usual preliminary activities, ie. Staff, site services, offices, accommodation.
Welfare facilities, labor accommodation, transport, Engineer’s requirements, IT, insurance, bonds,
warranties, etc. In reference to the withholding issue, item C.3 states, “Provide, Erect and maintain the
Contractor’s offices, including secondary and off-site accommodation and equipment,” whereas PLMS03
states, “Provide, Erect and maintain the Contractor’s offices, including secondary and off-site
accommodation and equipment.” The strikethrough of the particular words makes it clear that the
erection of the accommodation is included in PLMS03 and not the monthly preliminary milestones
PLMS05a to 20b.

At this time certification and payment for Milestones PLMS03, PLMS06c, PLMS07a, PLMS07b, PLMS07c,
and PLMS08a is being withheld due to the late erection of the labour camp. This amounts to an
outstanding payment of QAR168,244,331.14, which is seriously affecting the Contractor’s cashflow.
Therefore in accordance with the Contract only a partial amount of PLMS 03 should be withheld to cover
the non erection of the camp as this milestone is clearly where the work is allocated, although the

milestone does cover for other preliminary items, such as the erection of the Engineer’s and
Contractor’s offices.

The Contractor hereby requests that this situation is rectified in the forthcoming interim application.

Yours faithfully,
