Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0045
Overdue Responses to the Contractor’s Material Submittals – Architectural, Civil, and MEP – as at 14
February 2019
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described herein
may cause delay [and/or disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same.

The Event(s):
In the period between 8 November 2018 and 2 January 2019, the Contractor submitted 12 Material
Submittals seeking the Engineer’s review and approval of the various Architectural, Civil, and MEP
materials described and detailed therein (the information recorded in Annex A hereto refers).
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
the Engineer is contractually obligated to respond to the Contractor’s submittals. On the basis that each
of the 12 Material Submittals listed in Annex A are shown to comprise Rev. 00 and Rev. 02 [plus Rev. 04],
submittals, then these ought to have been responded to by the Engineer 21 and 7 calendar days later
respectively, i.e. in the period between 5 December 2018 and 23 January 2019. However, the
information recorded in Annex A hereto, also indicates that at the cut-off date associated with the
preparation of this Notice (i.e. 14 February 2019), the Engineer exceeded, and in some instances, is
continuing to exceed the review periods expressly stipulated in the Contract by upwards of 77 calendar
days.
The Contractor previously wrote on this matter albeit by e-mail on 28 January 2019 [timed at 12:56pm],
advising the Employer / Engineer that the responses to its Material Submittals were overdue and
requested the prompt review of the same, noting that “all approvals are critical”. While we appreciate
the efforts that have been expended by the Employer/Engineer in assisting the approval process to
some of these submittals in order for us to obtain a Status Code 2 or higher, many are late and still
overdue.
Potential Impact:
The overdue responses to the Material Submittals listed in Annex A has, in some but not all instances,
hampered our ability to procure, have delivered and subsequently install the affected materials. While
in those instances where we have endeavoured to mitigate delay and / or proceeded to procure the
noted materials, the lack of an approved material submittal will affect the final inspection of installed
materials; this is because the Engineer can only sign-off and approve the associated Work Inspection
Requests (WIR) if the material submittals are approved. Consequently, the continued delay in
responding and approving each of the overdue Material Submittals described in Annex A, will invariably
knock on, delaying the final WIR approval process of the associated Works and prevent us from
achieving ‘Substantial Completion’.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described herein.
Yours faithfully,
