Dear Sir,
Further to the Engineer’s direction to provide a quotation of reference 1) issued pursuant to General
Condition (“GC”) 13.2.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith the requested
cost estimate pursuant to its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

The Contractor estimates the additional cost to the Client in the net amount of circa QAR 12,500,000.
Full particulars of the said estimate, inclusive of the Contractor’s assumptions and exclusions vis-a-vis
the design and construction of the proposed Qatar Aeronautical College Flight Simulator Building are
enclosed in attachment 1) to this letter.

For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby noted that the high level documents (Initial Client Brief and
Project Requirements and Concept and Design Montage) issued vide letter reference 1) were insufficient
for the purpose of a valuation pursuant to Clauses 13.2.1 and 13.2.2 of Volume 3 of the Contract.

Such an undertaking (i.e. the pricing of an entire building) would typically be the subject of an allinclusive tender process with the issue of abundant information to the Contractor such as IFC drawings,
specifications, tender Q&A’s and so forth. On the basis that such information is not presently available,
the estimate of attachment 1) is not one that can be relied upon by the Engineer and / or the Employer
in the context of Clause 13.2.3 of Volume 3 of the Contract, and particularly in the context of Clause
13.2.3 (b). The purpose of this estimate is to provide the Engineer and / or the Employer with a rough
order of magnitude (ROM) only.

The Contractor hereby expressly reserves the right to add to, or delete from, or otherwise amend the
quotation of attachment 1) without prejudice to its rights in any subsequent negotiation pursuant to
Clause 13.2 [Proposed Variations] or otherwise, to vary its quotation of attachment 1) at any time and in
any way whatsoever.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.

Yours faithfully,
