Subject:
Dear Sir,

Acceleration Measures Instructed and associated additional costs

Further to your email dated 31 Dec 2020 [Thu, 10:29 AM] attached to Annex A hereto, wherein you have
instructed us to accelerate the works, this is to inform you that we have complied with your instructions
and we have increased our resources and will continue to increase them accordingly.
Please note that, we have deployed additional resources i.e. manpower and materials, to ensure that
the Subcontract Works are completed on the time requested. Accordingly, we wish to inform you that
we have taken all reasonable steps to ensure that our works will be completed, in such a manner and in
such time, to allow ABJV to comply with any of its obligations under the Main Contract with the
Employer.
Kindly be informed that we will be keeping detailed records for the additional resources used to
accelerate the works, which will be submitted for the associated additional costs. Accordingly, we
hereby notify you that we intend to claim for the additional costs associated with the acceleration
measures.
Notwithstanding, we feel prudent to remind you of the issues on your part, of the delayed certifications
and payments of our works done, as discussed in numerous of our previous letters. We note that further
holding back or delaying certifications/payments is only hurting the Project. Therefore, we once again
request you to ensure that the certification and payments are released on time, to enable us to finance
and maintain the acceleration measures, and our works overall.
In view of the above, we kindly request you to confirm the acceptance of the additional acceleration
costs, as well as, confirm the issuance of the payments on-time, in order for us to plan and achieve the
target completion dates accordingly.
In addition, further to our email attached to Annex B hereto, we are taking this opportunity to remind
you of our recent telephone discussion with your cost control department, during which your cost
control representative has requested the signed Contract of the Waste Water building (B49), to enable
him to issue the relevant payment certificate for the on-going works at B49. We put on record that we
have been constantly requesting you to issue the Contract for B49, to avoid any payment delays and/or
any other issues which might delay the works or create any confusion or uncertainties.
We assure you that we continue to work in good faith to meet the accelerated target dates set for the
completion of the Works.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, and appropriate steps will be taken accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
