Subject: Recovery of Overhead & Profit and Attendance Due to the Omission of Defined Provisional Sum
for Hotel Fit Out
Dear Sir,
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
We write in response to your letter reference (1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).
We have recently reiterated the basis of the Contractor's legal entitlement to damages for the improper
omission of works in letter reference (4) in relation to Beam Seating. The legal basis for the recovery of
omitted Defined Provisional Sum works is the same. In addition to the arguments that the Engineer
raised in relation to Beam Seating, the Engineer further references (1) contractual language defining the
term "Defined Provisional Sum" to claim
that the Engineer has the right omit such work, without the requirement to compensate the Contractor,
for whatever reasons including to award that work to other contractors. The contractual definitions
simply restate the generic definition of "provisional sum" as is recognised in the construction industry.
There is nothing in these definitions that permits the Engineer to violate principles of good-faith. Rather,
just like the definition of "Variation", these provisions only contemplate genuine omissions and not, ·as
in the case here, to omit works in order to award that work to other contractor(s). Indeed, it is very wellestablished that this language does not permit the Engineer to award such work to other contractors.1
The Engineer further states that "[t]here is no basis within the General Conditions of Contract for
compensating TCAJV on presumptions that they may make regarding the Employer's intent." It is
uncertain what is meant by this. The Defined Provisional Sum works at here are essential to the
completion of the Works. Therefore, if they have not been instructed to the Contactor, the
Engineer/Employer must instruct another contractor to execute these works.
The Engineer has failed to consider the true meaning of this language in considering the Contractor's
entitlement and, therefore, has not discharged its obligations under the Contract
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject: Compensation related to De-Scope of Beam Seating
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference {1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s).
As we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to

give to other contractors1(Union Supreme Court Case No 226/JY28 (noting that abusive omissions of
works were considered a breach of contract) You attempt to excuse the Employer from this rule by
referring to the definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e ., that a Variation includes "a) the addition,
omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof' . It appears that you read this provision as
permitting the
Engineer to instruct the omission of work for whatever reason it sees fit, including to give to other
contractors. This interpretation is inconsistent with industry understandings of the language, which
considers that this clause only relates to genuine omissions, and not omissions in order for the Employer
to contract that work elsewhere.
We note that Clause 22.2.4 states that where the Employer descopes the Contractor's work for cause,
the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission. [.
. .]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time."
Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the right to omit
works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties knew how to expressly
provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer could omit works
for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be entirely
redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1; even more, the Engineer could avoid
the Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission
under Clause 1.1.
You also dispute the proper remedy for this breach. Under UAE law, at the very least, the remedy for
such a breach is the contractor's lost profits and lost overheads. Against this, you refer to BOQ, Schedule
6, Preamble 12 to claim that "[t]he Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads
on the value of any omitted works." For the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
The Engineer is requested to confirm that its letter reference (1) is its "fair determination" within
meaning of Clause 11.4.1. If it was not such a determination, the Contractor requests that it issue such
determination within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Yours faithfully
