Subject Notice of Default - Breach of Subcontract due to Arcade Retail Circulation Area Fit Out
Dear Sir;
Package (MEP) We kindly want to take your attention to the Breach of Subcontract due to Arcade Retail
Circulation Area Fit out Package (MEP). During Site visit we saw that other contractor (Cioisall Co. LLC)
started to work for Electrical Works at subject Retail Circulation Area work (Tenant Work).
In this juncture, we kindly remind you Subcontract Specification Section 013115, 1.5 Work Responsibility
Item C (page 3) in the attachment which clarifies that "to keep continuity within the MTB construction
phase, Tenant Contractors shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including Electrical
Subcontractor as based on unit rates from BOQ.
This is an entitlement of Subcontractor which is clarified at Subcontract therefore there is a clear breach
of Subcontract by not using Subcontractor for the subject area works.
In the light of above information and attachments, we kindly request compensation of all our costs and
loses as per 21.2.1 (Adjustment to the Subcontract Price) and 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claims). In order to
calculate the total loses and costs due to this breach of Subcontract, we kindly request the total BOQ
quantities of subject area works which shall be done by Subcontractor.
Subject: Briefing Pack Change Management Process
Dear Sir,
We are writing to advise that we are no longer able to accept any further Briefing Package instructions
due to conditions and circumstances that have become unsustainable:
1. Notwithstanding an agreement to assist the Employer with the Briefing Package Change Management
services on Cost plus basis Variation, and despite a) your verification of the Variation services having
been delivered and accepted, b) your agreement of Variation Orders and Time/Cost Records and c)
your certification of amounts as earned and due pursuant to the Payment terms under the Contract,
you arbitrarily deducted such monies in breach of Conditions of Contract Clause 4 and 11.1.3.
The action is your letter references (1) and (2) are not acceptable and constitute a breach of the
Employer's obligations under the Contract.
2. You failed to conclude the Briefing Package process according to the Engineer's and Employer's
obligations under the Contract and the Briefing Pack I Change Management Process. Despite the
agreement that the Employer is responsible for the design in the Sketches released pursuant to the
Briefing Package workshops, the Employer failed to fulfil the design responsibility component by
issuing the revised IFC Drawings in a timely manner.
To this date none of the Briefing Packs have been closed out. Refer to our closeout requests in letters
reference (3) through (7) which remain outstanding. The Employer shall remain responsible including

all consequences such as abortive works arising from any retrospective IFC Drawing changes. 3. The
briefing pack process was a voluntary process, not an Employer entitlement under the Contract.
Moreover, it was originally intended to be deployed over a six-month period to expedite the last of
remaining Employer Variations. However, the briefing package process has been abused by the
introduction of expanding scope of change which continues without abatement since commencement
in February of 2015 despite your continuous assurances to the contrary.
The ever increasing scope of change is disrupting our ability to plan, coordinate and execute complex
works and is .causing a drain on our (?nd Subcontractor) resqurces that were intended to be deployed
for the execution of the Works rather than rectification of underdeveloped Employer design changes.
4. We set out important notifications regarding the consequential effects of the Briefing Pack processes
and clearly established the conditions and qualifications with respect of the responsibilities and the
liabilities arising therefrom. These were most recently recorded in our letters references (10) and
(11).
Your failure to respond to the substantive matters set out in the aforementioned letters indicates a
refusal to acknowledge the substantial Employer liabilities arising therefrom and the deployment by
Employer of the necessary mitigations.
For the above cited reasons, please be advised that we are not able to take on any further Briefing
Package assistance services. Going forward, we expect that the Employer undertake their own
obligations
as required in the Contract for the preparation and issuance of fully developed revised Drawings (as
"Bulletins"). These should be prepared by duly authorized professionals for each of the relevant trades
to
fully express the extent and scope of the Employer's Variations. We for our part will undertake our
obligations to the limits set out in the Contract.
To ease the transition back to the change procedure under the Contract, we will continue to provide
BIM
support on a call-off basis and will continue to provide the briefing package assistance for only those
Briefing Packs on which substantial progress has been achieved. These Briefing Packs are listed in the
attached Schedule under "In-Progress BPs". However, we are not able to provide any assistance on
those
Briefing Packs listed under "Declined BPs" or any other Briefing Packs issued in the future.
Please be guided accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
