
Subject :

Re: Cloisall Disruption Claim – Gatehouses

Dear Sir,
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Gatehouses Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 4,016,144.
The claim comprises six elements, the largest of which (AED 3,397,251) relates to additional cost of
labour, supervision and scaffold deployed in the cladding works to 19Nr Type E Gatehouses. In this
regard you say that if the works had not been disrupted, then you would have completed 19Nr Type E
Gatehouses in 19 months by deploying 24.292 Nr men at a production rate of 3m2/man/work day. You
then say that you did (or would) take 45 Nr men to complete the same work in the same period of 19
months such that production per man per work day did (or would) fall from 3.00 to 1.62m2 and cause
you to incur additional cost. Moreover, the increase in the number of men deployed (from 24.292 Nr. to
45 Nr.) necessitated an increase in supervision (Supervisors and Foreman). You also claim for Scaffold
over the 19 month period and apply an uplift of 2% to the Cost of Labour, Supervision and Scaffold for
‘Other’ items (Surveying, Logistics, Stores, QAQC and HS).
Notwithstanding the many other deficiencies of your claim, your valuation is entirely theoretical (based
on the unsubstantiated but consistent deployment of 45 Nr. men and related supervision over an
unidentified period of 19 months) and as such is rejected. Indeed, only additional Cost actually incurred
and arising solely from disruption events for which we are culpable will be considered; and only then if
you have complied with all of your related contractual obligations (including the timely notification and
valuation of all of the alleged disruption events and the implementation of mitigation measures).
Indeed, a disruption claim is not merely a bundle of contemporary correspondence and photographs
(much of which is not overtly linked to production) appended to a text of sweeping and largely
unsupported statements asserting culpability. As noted in our rejection of your claim for Wall Cladding
Disruption Cost, the following is required to asses any claim for disruption:
(i)
A ‘measured mile’ analysis supported by sufficiently detailed and objectively verifiable
contemporary records.
(ii)
An ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ for the Gatehouse cladding works.
(iii)
A full breakdown of all BQ unit rates related to Gatehouse cladding works.
(iv)
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and Contractor culpability.
(v)
The causal link between each of the alleged disruption events and the effect(s) / cost(s) claimed.
(vi)
Contemporary records (capable of being objectively verified) of the work (location, quantities
and times) impacted by each of the alleged disruption events, the name, designation and role of each
person and the relevant particulars of all other resources included in the calculation of the additional
Cost claimed.

(vii)
Actual Cost (not rates) of each resource, verified as applicable by Employment contract, salary
slip, third party order, invoice and evidence of payment.
(viii)
Evidence of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
(ix)
Abatement of actual Cost for:
a.
Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of resources, supervision,
availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
b.
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) included in your
valuation of variations and other claims e.g. Prolongation Cost Claim.
c.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim as variations e.g. instructed changes in the
design and/or sequence and/or method of executing the works
d.
Items that you failed to timely notify and/or claim that have prejudiced any related entitlement
we might otherwise have had to make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a backcharge against a subcontractor.
The other five elements of the claim are ‘spot’ type claims whereby as well as claiming AED 60,400 for
additional drawing time, you claim AED 558,492 for additional resources (principally supervision and
scaffold) that you allege it was necessary for you to deploy due to various events (e.g. incomplete work
by MEP and Glazing Contractors, interruption of works due to installation of bumper guard, rectification
of elevator shaft concrete works) that required you to re-visit and extend the duration of the cladding
works on up to 20Nr. Gatehouses areas. Again your valuation is entirely theoretical and deficient of all of
the above listed elements of a claim for disruption and as such is rejected.
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
