Subject:

RE: ADMC rented materials used by ABJV

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter ref: (2), regarding the subject matter, we wish to clarify the following:
You appear to make reference to Clauses 2.7, 2.10 and 2.11 of our Contract (LOA) as described in your
mentioned letter. However, we respectfully note that your referenced numbers of the clauses
reproduced in your letter are not correct. This is because, based on the content of the clauses
reproduced in your letter, these are in fact Clauses 2.6, 2.9 and 2.10 of the LOA respectively, and not
Clauses 2.7, 2.10 and 2.11, as mentioned in your letter.
With respect to your comments:
(a) “Clause 2.7 requires good housekeeping which is not really evident in the photographs attached to
your letter”; and
(b) “Clause 2.11 requires you to provide a storage area. It is clear that you have not provided a storage
area for yourselves with the requisite security; your materials are stored in multiple places around the
site without even any signage designating them as belonging to yourselves”;
we draw your attention to our letters ref: ADXB-LTR-2020-0195 dated 19 July 2020, ADXB-LTR-20200276 dated 15 November 2020, wherein we raised the issues about the laydown area located far from
the fixing location, and not 30m from the fixing location as per our agreement.
In addition, the area allocated to us to be used for storage, is not sufficient and thus, it is challenging to
optimize its current utilization. In fact, the designated storing area for the materials, is a small narrow
space facing the sea side between DAF building and the site road access, which is not sufficient for the
quantities of materials used for the works.
All of the above have created a congestion of materials at site, and consequently it is difficult for us to
manage the materials efficiently.

Additionally, in both our aforementioned letters ref: ADXB-LTR-2020-0195 and ADXB-LTR-2020-0276, we
discussed about the materials i.e. rebars, placed in a disorganized manner by ABJV at the laydown area,
causing a lot of delays in handling, mishandling, as well as, loss of materials.
These issues have been discussed numerous times previously, wherein we informed you that these
matters are causing delays and are having a negative impact on the progress of our works.
Nevertheless, despite the challenges discussed above, a team is allocated on a daily basis since the
commencement of the works, to manage all the housekeeping, to keep the work areas as neat and as
orderly possible.
With respect to your comment that “Clause 2.10 requires you to coordinate with ourselves and other
subcontractors, therefore issues should be resolved in discussions at site level without the need to
resort to letters of this nature”, we note that the purpose of our letter ref: (1) above, was simply to put
on record the events which have taken place as discussed thereto, regarding the unauthorized use of
our rented materials and to reserve our rights in the event there is any time or cost impact.
Additionally, we concur with your statement that coordination “issues should be resolved in
discussions” and this is the reason we are always acting with reasonable skill and care, and coordinate
our works with other Subcontractors and yourselves, at all times. Nonetheless, we wish to note that you
also have the same responsibility to coordinate with us promptly, regarding issues associated with the
subject matter, to avoid any similar incidents in the future.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, and appropriate steps will be taken, in order to
avoid reoccurrence of such events in the future.
Yours faithfully,
