
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1031 - Settlement of Manholes and Pipelines along the
Dear Sir,
Perimeter of the Main Terminal Building- Unforeseeable Physical Conditions
The Contractor writes with reference to the Geotechnical Report undertaken by Robert Bird, in relation
to
the settlement of the manholes and pipelines, issued under letter ref: (6) following receipt of the NCRs
(1),
(2) and {4), as well as refers to the Contractor's previous letter ref: {3) and Engineer's letter ref: {5).
The content of the Geotechnical Report is self-explanatory. As previously advised under letter ref: {6), it
is
evidently clear that the settlement of the manholes and pipes is not attributable to the Contractor, with
the Geotechnical Report stating conclusively that inter alia " ... a review of the project specification
requirements, testing of backfill material, RFI documents and field testing records concluded that TCA JV
has met the requirements as set out by the project and agreed with the client's representatives"
The physical conditions that have contributed in causing settlement of the manholes and pipelines could

not have reasonably been foreseen. Accordingly we hereby give the Engineer notice of the same
pursuant
to Clause 12.18.2 Conditions of Contract. It is also clear that whichever of the four strategies advised of
in
the Geotechnical Report are selected by the Engineer as being the adopted method for remedying the
settled manholes and pipework, will impact upon the Contractor's ability to achieve Milestones MS09A1
(Pier 2 Taking Over), MS09A2 (Pier 3 Taking Over), MS09A3 {Pier 1 Taking Over), and MS09A4 {Pier 4
Taking Over), plus Milestones MS09B {Substantial Completion) and MS10 (Completion of NOTP).
Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby
notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(b) (iii); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Sub-Clause 12.18
'Unforeseeable Physical Conditions'.
Subject Contractor's Interim Claim for Disruption
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor has submitted an interim claim
for alleged Disruption and Acceleration.
The Engineer has undertaken an initial review of the submitted claim and has identified that the claim is
not fully detailed or substantiated.
Furthermore, we note that the Contractor's claim submission is a "Global Claim" consisting of
summarized values without any details and substantiating data, contemporary records and no
demonstration of cause and effect to support any entitlement to additional Cost.
Moreover, we note that the Contractor has included in its claim a forecast for disruption to be incurred.
These costs shall not be the subject of the Engineer's assessment and are rejected given that only costs
actually incurred should be included in the claim submission.
Additionally, we reject the Contractor's contention that as per the UAE law causation is presumed and
requires no proof. The Contractor's interpretation of the law is irrelevant with the Contractor's
obligation under the Contract.
The Contractor's submission fails to distinguish between the claimed costs under different claim
submissions. The Contractor shall clarify which submissions are superseded by the current claim in order
to avoid "double dipping".
The Engineer has identified the following (but not limited to) deficiencies which the Contractor is
required to address in order to enable us to diligently assess the submitted claim:
Deficiencies of the claim submission
1. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the Employer's culpability;
2. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the associated cost claimed to have been incurred by the Contractor; 3. The
Contractor has failed to provide evidence that it has issued notifications in accordance with the

Contract regarding the alleged disruption events;
4. The Contractor has failed to provide evidence of the mitigation measures it has implemented to
avoid any disruption;
In addition to the above deficiencies, the Engineer has also the following observations:
Observations
1. Item 2.2.1 of the Contractor's claim states - "On the basis of delay to the progress of the Works
(which the Engineer wrongly attributed to the Contractor), the Engineer instructed Contractor to
expedite progress on various occasions." This statement is general and cannot be responded to. The
Contractor is to submit details and substantiation regarding the alleged delays which have wrongly
been attributed to the Contractor;
2. Item 2.2.3 of the Contractor's claim states - "These implied instructions constitute Variations for
which the Contractor is entitled to a valuation under Clause 16.4.3 and 20.3." The Contractor is to
submit details of "these implied instructions" and evidence the reasons they are to be valued as
Variations;
3. Please explain the statement in Item 2.3.2 of the Contractor's claim regarding an "accumulation of
the "Costs" that it incurred for each individual Variation."
4. The Contractor stated that the Employer/Engineer has failed to coordinate the works with Other
Contractors. Clauses 12.11 and 12.12 of the Conditions of Contract impose an obligation on the
Contractor - not the Employer- regarding the coordination with Other Contractors. The Contractor is
deemed to have accounted for this coordination in its Contract Price.
5. The Contractor claimed that the IFC design information and Variations have been issued in a
deficient manner and the Engineer has been deficient in administrating the Contract. The Contractor
is required to provide details of the design information and Variations which have been issued in a
deficient manner and evidence how they directly caused the Contractor to be disrupted.
6. Item 2.3.13 of the Contractor's claim states - "The Contractor does not contend that every single
change arose out of matters for which the Employer is responsible. But the bulk of them did". This is
a general statement which lacks any substantiation to support it. The Contractor is to explain what is
meant by "bulk" and provides specific details to evidence that the events to which it refers had an
actual disruptive impact.
7. The Contractor provides single sided arguments, i.e. reference is made to its own correspondence
without referencing the received Engineer's responses.
8. The claim lacks any demonstration of an incurred loss, i.e. it is a globalized evaluation method.
In light of the above, the Engineer contends that the Contractor has not demonstrated an entitlement to
additional cost at this stage as it has failed to establish causality and culpability of the events which
allegedly has caused disruption.
MTC
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Notice of Delay - BIM Delays - EDI Submission

With reference to the above subject and further to the official correspondences referenced herein (in
addition to the numerous emails sent to you), we raise our concerns regarding your failure to fulfil your
contractual obligations in relation to the execution of BIM deliverables in a timely manner.
Upon reviewing your current status it is evident that the following shortfalls persist:
You have failed to provide a Track Table and planned dates of submission for your scope of
LOD400 tagged models, refer to email reminders enclosed.
You have failed to provide a QA/QC check list proposal, following the request forwarded to you
in the above correspondence (3).
You have failed to provide a sample for LOD400 tagged model.
You have failed to provide a sample for As-Built LOD500 model.
You have failed to respond and action our requirements forwarded to you via letter ref. (3) and
ref. (4).
You have failed to provide a workflow illustration of how to export native format files into DGN
format.
You have failed to provide IFC compliance certification; confirming that the software used for
modelling is compliant with the IFC 2*3 format.
You are hereby immediately required to complete the above actions and comply with your contractual
obligations by referring to:
Schedule 12 (Specifications) Section 019800 [Building Information Modelling (BIM)], Section
013300 [Submittal Procedures], Section 013113 [Contractor’s Work Coordination Responsibility], Section
017700 [Project Close Out], and Section 019500 [Requirements for Facilities Management and
Maintenance].
BIM Implementation Plan - Sub-Contractors Participation Requirements.
Be reminded that in the event you fail to demonstrate your full compliance towards the above within
twenty one (21) days from the receipt of this letter, MTB TCAJV will proceed with the required actions
on your behalf and will back charge you accordingly. Our BIM department have provided a breakdown
of projected costs based on the resourcing requirements necessary to undertake the aforementioned
tasks (see enclosure B).
In addition to the above, you shall be held responsible for any loss, damages and/or extra expense
TCAJV and/or other affected trades may incur as a result of your delays in the completion of your BIM
obligations. This includes but is not limited to the costs for TCAJV BIM Team's services incurred in
assisting, supporting, educating and even rendering your scope of work on your behalf, so as not to
hinder the BIM coordination process.
Yours truly,
