Subject:On Account Payments and Cash Flow Assistance
Dear Sir/Madam,
Further to your letter referenced (1) above, we hereby set out our response accordingly.
In response to your statement that you are currently compiling disruption costs, we note that until we
receive further particulars and you adduce further evidence for additional costs, you are not entitled to
any further on-account payments at this stage.
We reiterate our point in previous letters (7) and (8) that you are required to resubmit your EOT &
prolongation Costs and disruption costs in the form of a Claim in compliance with all of your related
obligations under the Subcontract, including but not limited to Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract
Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the General
Conditions.
We note that we have responded to your stance regarding the calculation of overhead and profit in
letter reference (4) and most recently in letter reference (1 ) and now consider this matter closed.
We also note that we have responded to your letter reference (5) regarding your justification of an
additional AED 22,195,023 and refer you to our response in letter reference (3) whereby we have
requested further substantiation and justification of the Costs claimed.

Please be reminded that, our previous assessment of your Costs submitted under letter reference (6) is
without prejudice and was used independently to assess your Prolongation Cost submission and EOT; a
detailed assessment will follow upon receipt of full particulars as described in our aforementioned
letters. As stated above, we are still awaiting the submission of your Time Impact Analysis (TIA) in
accordance with Clause 27.2 of the General Conditions of Subcontract and upon receipt; our assessment
will be completed in order to finalise your entitlement to time and cost of your EOT and Prolongation
Claim.
Despite the lack of substantiation submitted for your Prolongation and EOT Cost particulars, we have
previously released AED 60m on-account to assist your cash-flow. For clarity, the on-account payments
released to date are not to be construed as entitlement against your submissions for EOT &
prolongation Costs and are to assist your cash-flow only. We have been fair with the on-account
payments provided so far and we are not in position to release any further payments based on the
information provided at this stage.
We hope that the above clarifies our position on the matter and we now consider this closed.

Yours faithfully,
