Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference {1} wherein the Subcontractor argues that it has not
yet received a response on its method statement and therefore it has been unable to expedite its
progress
whilst using scissor lifts. The Contractor notes the following:
The first revision of the Subcontractor's method statement reference MS-1093-TEM-130 was
received on 07 November 2017. The Contractor rejected this document with a code-3 due to the
Subcontractor's proposed lifting operations not providing sufficient information in respect of the
Subcontractor's compliance with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements. The first
revision ofthe method statement was returned to the Subcontractor on 15 November 2017.
The second revision of the Subcontractor's method statement was received by the Contractor on
21 November 2017 and forwarded to the Engineer on 29 November 2017. The second revision of
this document was rejected by the Engineer with a code-3 and returned to the Subcontractor on
11 December 2017. The Engineer provided numerous comments that required to be addressed by
the Subcontractor.
On 19 December 2017, the Subcontractor re-submitted its method statement; however this
submission was incomplete as numerous documents requested previously by the Engineer had
not been included (e .g. response/comment sheet, risk assessment, certificates, etc.). During the
subsequent weeks the Subcontractor drip-fed the Contractor with the missing documents, yet
some of these were still erroneous and/or incomplete (please refer to attached email
correspondence) .
The Subcontractor did not submit a revised method statement until 09 January 2018. This third
revision of the method statement was forwarded to the Engineer who issued a code-2 on 07
February 2018.
In summary, any alleged delays incurred by the Subcontractor in obtaining the work permit for the use
of
scissor lifts results from its inability to make a proper and complete method statement submission.
Furthermore, during this entire process the Contractor used its best efforts to assist the Subcontractor
whilst organising workshops attended by representatives of its HSE and technical departments. This
assistance I guidance aimed to prevent additional costs to the Subcontractor resulting from the Engineer
exercising its rights under Section 1.1.3.A.3.g of Specification 01330 and back-charging the
Subcontractor
for further submittals reviews due to its negligence to transmit conforming submittals. To be clear, this
is
over and above any responsibility of the Contractor who deems prudent to remind that, pursuant to
Clause 1.3 of the letter of Award, 'the Sub-Contractor is deemed to have full knowledge and
understanding of the Project requirements, Drawings and Specifications [ ... ]'.
Yours faithfully,
