
Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0087
Unreasonable Code 3 Comments issued in response to 7 WIRs to Gatehouses GH01, GH02, GH47, GH48
and GH49 – Installation of Hollow Metal Doors
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the same.
The Event(s):
During the first quarter of 2019 we have been submitting numerous Work Inspection Requests (WIR)
requesting the final inspection and approval of the installation of circa 1,550 doors to various levels and
areas of Central Processor and Piers 1, 2, 3 and 4. These include without limitation, a series of seven (7)

WIRs submitted on or about 20 April 2019 in respect of twelve (12) Hollow Metal Doors and Hardware
to Gatehouses GH01, GH02, GH47, GH48 and GH49, in the manner shown in Annex A.
However, following your inspection of the noted doors on 27 April 2019, we note that the responses to
all seven WIRs contain a series of unreasonable Status Code 3 comments – despite the Doors and Door
Hardware subject to these WIRs being fully compliant. The information recorded in Table 1 below for
example, records the particular comments in question, alongside which we have provided a response
justifying exactly why the inspectors’ comments are unreasonable,and / or are rebutted.
Table 1
WIR NUMBER CMA COMMENTS
TCA JV RESPONSE
WIR-FIN-60187
WIR-FIN-60192
WIR-FIN-60195
WIR-FIN-60212
WIR-FIN-60219
WIR-FIN-60228
WIR-FIN-60237 A
“Observed many scratches & rust in door panel and Door frame, to be Repaint”. All paint items have been agreed that they will be addressed as snags.
B
“Door Closer is not functioning properly”.
You are kindly requested to indicate the
Code and/or Specification Clause providing explanation and the reasons why this closer does not meet
the project requirements ‘properly’, as per your assertions. This comment is ambiguous and without
basis; and cannot be accepted.
C
“Cylinder to comply with Master key approved schedule and fail safe and fail secure
doors”. Cylinders are fully compliant with the approved material submittal and Project requirements.
Cylinders have nothing to do with the Master Keying as the cylinder only houses the cylinder core. The
Master Keying schedule has nothing to do with the FAIL SAFE or FAIL SECURE Door Hardware.
This comment is invalid and has no basis.
D
“Fire rated door subject to Profire final approval, contractor fully responsible to rectify
any comments given by Profire”.
You are kindly requested to specify the exact comments as
stated from PROFIRE? This seems to be an unsubstantiated general comment. We will only rectify valid
comments by PROFIRE or by CMA.
E
“Coordinate with floor finish under the door panel area”.
This is a general and an
unsubstantiated comment. An example of a more specific comment would be to specify if the Door
clashes with the flooring for example? Or is the undercut on the door not compliant with the code
requirement? This comment is ambiguous in nature as has no relevance to the opening of the door.
F
“Final approval subject to snagging and De-snagging acceptances”.
This comment
is accepted.
G
“Final acceptance subjected to ADAC/KPF Approval of top coat paint”. What is the
reference for the comment? Final paint repair Method Statement and Benchmarks are approved. This is
another general unsubstantiated comment. All Final Paint is part of the Snag process. This comment
cannot be accepted.
H
“All sealant damages to be rectified prior to snagging”. This
is
another
general
comment without providing specifics and is without basis. Please specify any actual damage indicating
location at each opening. Please indicate if any actual damage occurred. As stated above, any general
comment will not be accepted.
I
“Coordinate with other trades”. This comment is ambiguous and without basis. This is
another general comment that is considered invalid.
The above comments listed in Table 1 are without doubt, unreasonable and are indicative of general
comments that in our view reflect the opinion of the inspector as opposed to specific comments. This

has already been communicated to you by way of our e-mail dated 28 April 2019 [at 11:31am]. We
therefore urge you to withdraw the comments and annotate each WIR Status Code 2 or higher.
It is important to stress that the above comments are not just limited to the sample of the doors listed
hereto. There are potentially 100’s of WIR’s with similar comments. We have so far received 990 WIRs
endorsed Status Code 3; all of which require us to comb through each WIR to determine the exact
quantity of doors affected. The ramifications of which cannot be under-estimated.
Potential Impact:
Meanwhile, the unreasonable Status Code 3 responses issued against each of the various WIRs listed in
Table 1 and Annex A hereto, will continue to delay and disrupt the Works; and prevent us from
completing the Works to 12 doors to Gatehouses GH01, GH02, GH47, GH48 and GH49 to Level L2.0.
Acts of prevention such as this, will, at this stage, prevent us from obtaining the Building Completion
Certificate (BCC) and handover for ORAT. This is critical is us achieving completion of Milestone MS09B.
Consequently, the more you unduly prolong the approval of any doors and door hardware and subject
them to unnecessary and unreasonable Status Code 3 comments such as those indicated in Table 1
above, the more likely this will prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works;
specifically, we urge you to retract the Status Code 3 comments issued in response to the seven (7) WIRs
noted herein in Annex A and Table 1, and re-issue all 7 WIR responses Status Code 2 or above Kindly
ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
