Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0226
Engineer’s Unreasonable Comments issued in reply to Commissioning Inspection Request (CIR) COMCIR-0401-TAVIT-0531 regarding LAN Performance Tests
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto, concern delays associated with the receipt of unreasonable
comments by CxA endorsed on CIR-0531 (ref: 1), relating to the Local Area Network Performance Tests.
Potential Impact

Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We have appreciable concerns in relation to the receipt on 23 January 2020 of unreasonable Status
Code 3 comments annotated on Commissioning Inspection Request (CIR) No: COM-CIR-0401-TAVIT0531 (ref: 1) via the ZUTEC software, in relation to the Local Area Network (LAN) Performance Tests (PT)
conducted by the Employer’s Commissioning Consultant (CxA). This follows the recent LAN PT to the
Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Airport Operational Systems (AOS) and Security
Systems, which we hasten to add, were conducted between 28 July 2019 and 8 August 2019. It
therefore is frustrating for you to take several months to code the CIR for the LAN PT; this protracted
period is unacceptable.
By way of background, according to industry technical standards backed by Specification Section 272100
(‘Local Area Network Equipment’), the LAN timers are required to check the data redundancy from each
respective timer device installed in the Project. Simply put, in the event of any network failure, the LAN
timers are used to calculate the time which it takes for the data / ‘traffic’ to shift from one timer device
to another timer device in the event the network signal / device(s) has been lost or is corrupted.
In the event however, the unreasonable Code 3 comments annotated on CIR No: COM-CIR-0401-TAVIT0531 was triggered by the aggressive configuration of the installed timers while testing the convergence
between the timers installed for the LAN. The fact that the manufacturer (Cisco) of the LAN timers and
associated systems, had clearly suggested not to use the aggressive configuration during the testing of
the timers. Interestingly this was also confirmed by you, by way of your previous email sent to
us/CxA/ADAC/Cisco dated 7 February 2018 [Wednesday 9:23 AM] reproduced in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1
Via your email [in Figure 1 above], you openly acknowledged and confirmed that “…Cisco advised that
using the aggressive timers is not a recommended practice and therefore all agreed that TAV-IT should
revert to the timers recommended by Cisco. ADAC and the design consultant accepted this as well”.
This is also confirmed by Cisco on their email sent to us / TAV IT on 18 December 2016 [Sunday 8:38 PM]
a partial extract of which is reproduced in Figure 2 below, where Cisco confirm inter alia, that “Going
very aggressive on all protocols timers is not recommended because this case cause[s] false alarms and
cause unnecessary flapping and convergence”. We herewith attached a full copy a copy of Cisco’s email
at Annex B which also provides various different cases in regards to the configuration of the LAN timers.
Figure 2
Your email dated 7 February 2018 (Figure 1 refers), is essentially a confirmation of the agreement made
between the parties i.e. TCAJV, TAVIT, ADAC, CMA, CXA, that the configuration of the LAN timers would
be set to ‘relaxation’ as per Cisco recommendations, while performing the tests and that the data
recovery mechanisms of the timers, would not be configured / set as indicated in Specification 272100,

since the Contract Specification provide very stern recovery times, which could not be reasonably form
part of the PT cases nor could form part of the documentation and submissions, also confirmed by Cisco.
In view of the above, it is evident that it has been mutually agreed between all parties i.e. TCAJV / Cisco
/ CMA / CxA / ADAC / Employer’s Design Consultant to run the LAN Performance test with Cisco’s
recommended timers and that the timers during PT were going to be used for the record only along with
the performance/failover of applications; consequently, LAN aggressive timers were not to be used.
Additionally, Cisco (Figure 2 refers), has in fact provided technical details and reinforced the avoidance
of using aggressive timers and essentially advised that the Contract Specification provides very stern
recovery mechanisms which as per Cisco, are not advisable to be used in the LAN of the MTB systems.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contract Specification 272100 Section 2G (Redundancy) specifies that:
“Recovery mechanisms shall be deployed as part of the network implementation and shall be tuned to
achieve less than 0.25 second recovery time, both during the failure of a link and less than 0.5 seconds
for device recovery and during the (automatic) recovery of the link or device.”
In this regard, Cisco advised “Timer requirements should not be applied to all technologies especially
that every type of device and technology has its own protocols and timers to converge. This is mainly
the reason where the timers of 500ms and 250ms can’t be met in the security frame (WAN, FW, IPS
etc.). On the other hand, those timers were met in the LAN testing (access, core, distribution) related
scenarios”, meaning they are different network devices with different features but with similar failure
scenarios.
It is also worth noting, Cisco’s comments [reproduced in Figure 2] stating that their suggestions listed
thereto are based on industry “…standards and it will apply to all vendors and not only Cisco…”. In the
same manner, Cisco advised that “…there are certain limits that no vendor can exceed due to standard
and best practices…” Therefore, this clearly demonstrates that there are certain industry standards that
shall be used in regards to the LAN performances and consequently the relevant LAN timer recovery
mechanisms and these standards do not necessarily meet the requirements specified in the Contract.
Moreover, Performance Testing (PT) methodology and tests packs have been workshopped for review
and approval during January 2019, wherein feedback has been provided by you / ADAC / CxA on the test
procedures presented and how these procedures must be reported. However, during these workshops,
many documents were rejected by you due to purported errors in documentation and the reports for all
systems were requested to be resubmitted. Consequently, despite multiple workshops having been
carried out with CxA, wherein all of the above mentioned issues were explained, yet again, we received
your Status Code 3 rejection comments for the LAN timers’ recovery mechanisms.
It is also worth noting, that during the Performance workshops in January 2019 with CxA, the
requirement for aggressive LAN timers recovery mechanisms as per your Code 3 comments, had never
been raised by CxA and was never requested during the approval of Performance test pack or during the
official performance testing. Moreover, MATV associated testing was not part of the performance
testing and was to be demonstrated separately from Performance Testing; this was previously conveyed
to you via our letter dated 27 June 2019 (ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014493). We therefore consider your
Code 3 comments pertaining to the MATV-FIDS are completely irrelevant and unfair on this occasion.
Additionally, we remind you that the Design of the WLAN and LAN has been validated, reviewed and
approved by Cisco on 9 February 2018 (refer to their letter in Figure 3). We point out Cisco’s comments
that state we “have reflected Cisco’s recommendations in the LAN LLD [Low Level Design]
documentation attached hereto in respect to the Cisco components and that Cisco has verified that said
LLD aligns with Cisco’s best practices for LAN LLD under LAN Specification Section 272100 Rev 02 of
RFP…”
Figure 3

In addition to all of the above, the information recorded in Table 1 below, records all your particular CIR
comments in question, alongside which we have provided a detailed response justifying why we believe
those comments are unreasonable. We believe this ‘exercise’ to be self-explanatory.
Table 1
Item Engineer’s Comments Contractor’s Response
1
"Local Area Network Performance Test. Refer Specification 272100, Section 2.2 Network
Architecture, ""G. Redundancy. 2. Recovery mechanisms shall be deployed as part of the network
implementation and shall be tuned to achieve less than 0.25 second recovery time, both during the
failure of a link and less than 0.5 seconds for device recovery and during the (automatic) recovery of the
link or device.”
“Contracor has failed to meet the above requirements for Unicast traffic in Test Cases 7.1, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7,
7.8, 7.9, 7.11 & Multicast traffic in Test Cases 7.1, 7.15. Contractor to clarify." During
the
LAN
Standalone Functional Acceptance Test (SFAT) / Integration Test Facility (ITF) testing to meet the
specification timers , Protocols convergence aggressive timers has been used, wherever timers didn’t
meet. However Cisco clarification was provided / submitted not to use the aggressive timer which can
cause false alarms and cause unnecessary flapping and convergence. And, the Standalone Functional
Acceptance Test (SFAT) / Initial Site Acceptance Test (ISAT) of the LAN Test Inspection Requests were
submitted along with the manufacturer recommendation and were approved by Cisco respectively.
2
"Refer Specification 272100, Section 3.3 QUALITY CONTROL AND TESTING, I. Performance Test:,
4. Demonstrate security of all interfaces with other networks and systems, against external and internal
threats.
a. The Contractor to hire independent, ISO 27001 certified, security testing specialist, to carry out and
demonstrate the security tests. b. The Contractor to present the credentials of at least 2 specialist to the
Engineer for approval. c. Any deficiencies identified by the specialist to be rectified at no cost.
Contractor to comply to this requirement and provide relevant reports for sign-off."
Please refer to
0401/TAVIT-GEN-MTB-T-0014 for security test procedure plan.
Please refer to 0401-MTB-TC-020 for the security test results and findings / response which are covered
under TAVIT scope that has been carried out before the performance test was conducted.
3
"Handling and Closure of NIVP/NICD is pending from TCAJV, which is agreed to be a
Perfromance Testing deliverable.
As per the process agreed ""1. The NICD will be converted to a NIV Checklist. 2. The Subcontractor will
then fill in the details 3. These will then be verified by JV 4. JV and subcontractor will sign this document
which will be submitted as an appendix to the Performance Test report 5. The PT report will be coded
and closed by CxA/Engineer."" ADAC/CXA has not yet received NIVP documents for ICDs in scope.
Contractor to rectify and resubmit."
NICD document validation screenshots will be attached to the
LAN PT CIR
4
“Refer Specification 274210, which requires FIDS to be capable of displaying MATV video as part
of the flight information pages, or even as full screen television services. Specification states " MATV
video streams shall be incorporated in the page layout by using the URL of the unicast page or multicast
stream in the web page or as a separate window. Video shall be windowed, or displayed in full page
according to the signage requirement." This has not been demonstrated yet. Contractor to provide
status, plan for overall testing of FIDS along with MATV.”
Based on the meeting scheduled and
agreed with Cisco, TAVIT/TCAJV/CMA and ADAC on 25-Dec-19 and in consideration of the current
design, the Proposed solution is to merge the (MATV and FIDS) VRF in order to achieve the multicast
functionality between MATV and FIDS VRF. However, within VRF (MATV, FIDS and IPT) multicasts
functionality has been demonstrated during SFAT/ISAT/PT. Please refer the test cases: 1.20, 1.21.
5
“Refer Current LAN Low Level Design which is approved by CISCO team. Currently the Contractor
is unable to transmit Multicast in between FIDS to MATV VRFs. TCAJV has raised a Cisco TAC case, " SR

687617403 : Nexus Support for Multicast traffic over 2 or more vrf" . Cisco has stated that the current
hardware has limitations and this cannot be achieved. Contractor to clarify, rectify and demonstrate a
complete working solution.”
Based on the meeting scheduled and agreed with Cisco,
TAVIT/TCAJV/CMA and ADAC on 25-Dec-19 and in consideration of the current design, the Proposed
solution is to merge the (MATV and FIDS) VRF in order to achieve the multicast functionality between
MATV and FIDS VRF. However, within VRF (MATV, FIDS and IPT) multicasts functionality has been
demonstrated during SFAT/ISAT/PT. Please refer the test cases: 1.20, 1.21.
6
“Contractor has not followed process stated in approved documents such as "Configuration
Management Plan" etc and the requirements of the Specification.”
LAN CMP document has been
attached to Annex C
7
“Contractor has not provided list of issues, Root Cause Analysis, fixes and changes performed to
the system.” This has been covered in the issue tracker sheet. Please refer to NCR “MTC-CMA-0401CM-NCR-01394” which will be submitted separately.
8
“Contractor to provide details as per guidelines stated in documents such as CMP etc.” LAN
CMP document has been attached to Annex C
9
“Contractor to provide all details of issues, changes etc from ISAT stage of the project. Refer NCR
"MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01394" for more details.”
Please refer to NCR “MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR01394” which will be submitted separately.
10
“Contractor has provided "ADAC MTB SIEM" use cases in this document. Contractor has stated
the test cases required to be finalized for deployment. Contractor to conduct a joint workshop with
ADAC / CMA/ CXA to take inputs and take necessary actions if any.”
This has been communicated to
ADAC/CMA/ and TCAJV as per the attached email. However, the extra SIEM licenses have to be provided
by ADAC, in order to facilitate the additional use cases.
11
“Configuration of end devices description is missing in Access Switches in MTB. Contractor to
rectify and revert.”
The port level description is defined on all the uplinks and for systems in
DC/MCRs.
12
“There are multiple Interfaces which are Code3, NMS-UPS for SCR/ANEL, MCR/ANEL,
SCR/BOND, NMS-IPDU, BMS-NMS which as per agreement with ADAC IT teams, this will be replaced
with Schnider DCIM solution. DCIM Solution to be demonstrated and signed off with CXA/ADAC for all
UPS in scope.” As per the agreement these interfaces will be resolved upon DCIM approval.
In summary therefore, and in light of the fact that the completion of all works associated with LAN
Performance Tests for the ICT, have been completed following the manufacturer’s specific
recommendations and are consequently fit for purpose and moreover satisfy the performance
requirements for which they are intended in the Contract; in which case we consider your comments
made to (CIR) No: COM-CIR-0401-TAVIT-0531 (ref: 1) to be unreasonable and without merit.
On this basis, we kindly request you to proceed at the earliest to close out CIR ref: (1) to avoid any
further delays. Please note that any delays incurred to date or which may be incurred by us as a result of
your failure to approve / close-out CIR ref: (1) due to the abovementioned matter, shall be at your risk.
In conclusion and in keeping with the purpose and spirit of SAA8 we intend to keep you / the Employer
appraised (including vide the Risk Mitigation Meetings) of the impact of the abovementioned delays.
Yours faithfully,
