Subject Contractor's Wet Weather Preparedness Arrangements
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and we request further clarity on the Contractors'
controls and arrangements in association with the following points:
1. Although the Contractor stated that all necessary mitigation and preparedness stipulated
within the Wet Weather Plan are in place, we are yet to receive an updated Wet Weather Plan
from the Contractor.
2. The Contractor's Wet Weather Plan shall provide all the current preparation and response
arrangements to reflect the current site conditions. This Plan must be updated as site
conditions and the requirement of these arrangements changes.
3. The Contractor must clearly identify the contingency arrangements as to how large volumes of

water from the MTB roof drainage system will be managed. We expect this to be clearly
identified on a set of drawings indicating the interface points with other Contractors where
the water may discharge to and agreements pertaining to the same.
4. Full protection of the MTB Building and all other associated property, fixtures and fittings as
well as other Contractor's areas and property.
5. Communication and coordination with all other Contractors, such as up and down stream
utilities that have a potential of being affected.
The Engineer also draws the Contractor's attention to the recent water inundation testing that was
conducted near sewer manholes S2209 and S2210, which resulted in the collapse of the surrounding
ground and associated elements of the superstructure works. It is critical that the Contractor ensures
mitigation measures are in place for the risk of surface water accumulation as to avoid collapse of the
underlying soil/ backfill material.
The Contractor remains fully responsible for any damage resulting from any failure to implement the
Wet Weather Preparedness Plan. The Contractor is required to provide its response within 7 days
upon receipt of this letter.
Yours….’
Subject: Dispute Notice, pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.3.1
Dear Sir,
Further to your letter reference 3) above, we confirm that the dispute notice meeting took place at TCA
JV site office on Thursday 17 January 2019 at 4pm, between TCA JV and Mosart representatives. In
consideration of this, we would like to reconfirm below what was agreed between the parties at the
meeting:
Both parties have agreed to attend a series of workshops over the coming weeks to discuss what further
information / clarifications are required to support Mosart’s claims for both addition time and costs. In
consideration of this, the parties agreed to have separate workshops on the following subjects – please
note, 1) the quantum and delay workshops have been aligned on the same dates for any necessary
collaboration, but will be held in different meeting rooms; 2) the adjacent dates/times have been
proposed by TCA JV:
Workshop No Quantum
Work Shop Subject
Date Time Location
1
Contractual Costs
23 January 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office - Meeting room
TBC
2
Staff Costs
28 January 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office - Meeting room TBC
3
Plant and Machinery Costs
31 January 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office Meeting room TBC
4
Labour Camp and Transportation Costs 04 February 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office Meeting room TBC
5
Other Prelims Costs
06 February 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office - Meeting room
TBC
6
Disruption Costs / Head Office Over heads & Profit
11 February 2019
9am to 12pm
TCA Site Office - Meeting room TBC

Workshop No Delay
Work Shop Subject
Date Time Location
1
Baseline Review
28 January 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office - Meeting room
TBC
2
Progress Updates / As-Built Programmes
31 January 2019
9am to 12pm TCA
Site Office - Meeting room TBC
3
Delay Analysis – methodology 04 February 2019
9am to 12pm TCA Site Office Meeting room TBC
Each of the workshop’s above will be recorded using a Scott schedule, which will be subsequently issued
to Mosart after each workshop. The schedule(s) will record what has been submitted by Mosart to date
and will identify what is still outstanding by way of records, clarifications etc. They will also record what
was agreed between the parties during the workshops and will make note of further actions against
each of the parties, with an agreed time period to provide the necessary information. In consideration
of the proposed dates/times above, please confirm if Mosart can attend and who will be attending each
of the workshops from your team.
Further, with regards to your Notice of Dispute received on 18 December 2018 via letter reference
MMM/18/MTB/186, we remind Mosart that there are strict time periods which must be adhered too
under Sub-Clause 27.3 of the Sub-Contract Agreement. Given the extent of the workshops above and
potential time required to gather / submit any further information, TCA JV are willing to extend the 60
day period in the hope of resolving the matters raised in your dispute notice. As this has to be mutually
agreed between the parties we therefore request your prompt response on this so we can proceed
accordingly.
Yours….’
Subject:

Counters at Shell and Core Areas

Dear Sir,
We refer to the email correspondences referenced (1) above and enclosed herewith, to inform you that
the finishes works including flooring of Shell and Core spaces are not under our scope, as per IFC
A80_323 and the room finishes schedule rev 25.
Accordingly, since the scope of works for the counter desks for these rooms is under our scope but the
room finishing is not and due to the fact that the floor finishes have not been completed at these areas,
we are unable to install the counter desks. Please note that the impacted rooms are at L0.0 Room No.
604 and Room No. 0007.
Kindly note that the aforementioned is also impacting the update of room completion in Zutec software.
Therefore, in order to update and close the mentioned rooms in Zutec, we confirm our agreement with
ADAC, to handover the mentioned counters to you.
In view of the above, you are kindly requested to advise the handover procedure of the mentioned
counters.

Yours faithfully,
