Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0114
ADDC Rejection of Electrical Design - Requirement to Change Protection Rating of SMDBs to IP54 Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the same.
The Event(s):
In the period between 28 March 2019 and 10 July 2019, the Abu Dhabi Distribution Company (ADDC)
undertook a series of inspections of the internal wiring of the electrical installations to various areas of
the Main Terminal Building, including without limitation the inspections shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Item Inspection Date Case ID ADDC Comments
1
28-Mar-19
6299172077 ‘electrical closet must be dedicated and
isolated by fire/water proofed wall.
2
10-Jul-19
8725504329 ‘SMDB must be minimum IP54 rated at the plant room area as
per the ADAC agreement’
However, in both cases, the electrical installations have been rejected by ADDC for the reasons that
include those identified and reproduced in Table 1 above, which primarily relate to the requirement for
the affected SMDBs [i.e. those listed below] to have an Ingress Protection (IP) rating of IP54 .
1.
SMDB reference no. FS-MDP-CLP7-L3.4-1;
2.
SMDB reference no FS-MDP-CLP7-L3.4-2; and
3.
SMDB reference no NE-DP-CLP3-L1.0-EV1
We remind you that we have constructed the works in accordance with the IFC Drawings reflecting a
design for which the Employer’s Design Consultant [KPF] is unequivocally responsible for, not us.
However, it is clear there is a fundamental variance and disparity between the IFC Design [which we
have constructed the works in accordance with] and the applicable codes and regulations governing the
electrical design [for which the Employer’s Design Consultant, KPF, is responsible for] and against which
ADDC is inspecting the works; hence the reason for its rejection of the electrical installations.
Therefore in order for us to address the ADDC rejected comments detailed in the referenced Case IDs
summarised in Table 1 and ensure that the electrical installations comply with the requirements of
ADDC, we will require a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO) in order to do so.
SAA8 laid down mandatory procedures to be followed if additional works are required consequently an
EI and VO are needed for us to proceed with the aforementioned changes to the noted SMDBs.
We therefore take this opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:

ADDC’s rejection of the electrical installations in respect of the above noted Case IDs is preventing the
completion of the ADDC inspection process, which will knock on and delay energisation of critical areas
of the Project, and will invariably impact on our ability to hand over the affected areas. If the matter
continues and is not addressed, then this will impact our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B.
Moreover, this will invariably continue to knock on and delay achievement of Milestone MS09C.
Action Required:
It is for this reason therefore, that we issue this E-Notice requesting your prompt action, guidance,
decision or further instruction as may be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to
mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works. This includes for example:
1.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within ten (10) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
