Dear Sir,

Further to Engineer's Assistant's letter reference 1), the Contractor maintains having complied with the
provisions of Volume 5 - Employer's Requirements - Particular, Sub-Clause 2.1.2 b), for underground and
above ground ancillary structures including ventilation shaft, plant rooms.

In addition, the Contractor confirms compliance with the provisions of Volume 5 - Employer's
Requirements
- Particular, Sub-Clause 2.1.1, that "the design and construction of the works shall be developed in
accordance with the Employer 's Requirements and the Contractor's Technical Proposals."

The Contractor is unable to concur with the Engineer's Assistant's observations regarding the
requirement of Traction Power Supply in the Emergency Exit shaft at Al Sharq being defined under
Volume 6 - Employer's Requirements - Design Specifications, Sub-Clause 14.3.2.3.

Finally, the Contractor kindly refers the Engineer's Assistant to Volume 9 - Employer's Requirements Employers Investigations Report No. 1.2.1.5, Power and Water Demand Study Final Report and Power
Demand Study Operational Simulation Final Report prepared by DBi.

The Engineer's Assistant's attention is drawn towards Annex 6 - Matrix for Traction Power Substation
750 V DC metro location, page 4 of 7 (enclosed herewith for ease of reference) wherein it is mentioned
that the TPS DC location is

;;::.

In Tunnel for the Tunnel section up to Ras Bu Abboud (Airport City North) Station

J.>

In Ras Bu Abboud (Airport City North) Station

;;::.

In Qatar National Museum (Al Sharq/ National Museum) Station

)::>-

In Station Souq Waqif (Doha Souq) Station

;;::.

..

This confirms that no Traction Power Supply was planned through the Emergency Exit between Ras Bu
Abboud (Airport City North) Station and Qatar National Museum (Al Sharq/ National Museum) Station at
tender stage.

Further to the above, the Contractor hereby reiterates that there is no contractual requirement for the
provision of Traction Power Supply through the Emergency Exit at Al Sharq.

Dear Sir,

Further to the Contractor's submission under letter reference 1) and the discussions held at the Design
Meeting of 04 November 2015, the Contractor encloses herewith its proposal for the Urban Integration
of Pop - Ups at Joaan Station.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification. Yours faithfully ,
