GUIDE-LINES
SUBCONTRACTORS SUBMISSIONS OF COSTS FOR PROLONGATION, DISRUPTION, SPECIAL MEASURES
AND SUCH LIKE
Guidelines on Information Required for Cost Substantiation
Prolongation and Disruption Costs
The following sets out the minimal requirements for cost substantiation documents from TCA-JV’s
Subcontractors, where further audits are to be carried out.

The Subcontractors need to provide, as a minimum, the following:
1.
Cost substantiation should be presented in a proper structure with supporting narrative and
appendices which reflects the ‘cost sections/headings’ listed on the Subcontractors’ overall cost
summary sheet (excel copy - cost spread monthly), where cost substantiation is provided on a month by
month basis.
2.
The Subcontractor must provide the details of costs by reference to the resources deployed and
invoices etc., to substantiate the actual costs of time related costs, i.e. prolongation costs.
3.
Detailed calculations for the additional costs must be provided in a spreadsheet format. Such
spreadsheets should be consistent with the narrative in terms of titles and column headings (sample
provided).
4.
Invoices should be individually referenced and cross-referenced back to secondary summary
sheets which then correlates to the overall cost summary sheet, so that the reviewer may easily verify
and track all costs.
5. Tender and actual project organization charts.
6. Proof of Subcontractor monthly reporting on claims and EoT’s (Extension of Time) related issues.
7. Proof of Subcontractors monthly reporting on delay and disruption mitigation measures undertaken.
8. Staff salary certificates should be provided for all staff claimed over the prolonged period, supported
by timesheets and proof of site presence.
9. Other staff and management supporting documents should include, but not be limited to the
following:
•
design, engineering and consultancy invoices
•
salary certificates, timesheets, site clock-in records, site badges/ID’s
•
purchase orders and quotations
•
health insurance, visa costs, invoices
•
employee tenancy agreements
•
employee car rental agreements
•
employee general expenses
10.
Plant, equipment and tools provided on site are to be supported by timesheets and proof of site
presence. Other plant, equipment and machinery and site running costs supporting documents should
include, but not be limited to the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

plant, equipment and machinery invoices
scaffolding services agreements & invoices (labour hire)
site running costs & invoices (back-charges listed separately)
site delivery notes
site office IT, furniture and office equipment invoices
safety and HSE equipment invoices
survey services agreements & invoices

•
diesel consumption reports which should match with equipment, plant & machinery lists
•
services, plant, equipment provided by TCA-JV should be listed separately
•
plant, machinery and equipment deprecation should be substantiated on a monthly basis
separately (if not included in Company Overheads)
11.
Additional costs in relation to Employer variation orders or instructed varied works cannot be
included in EoT cost submissions and these need to be allocated and dealt with separately under TCAJV’s V/O Department. Any ‘duplication’ of costs in relation to EoT and V/O cost submissions will be
deducted accordingly. It will be each Subcontractor’s obligation to demonstrate that duplication of costs
(EoT & Variations) has not occurred in this respect.
12.
Disruption costs (if any) related to ‘site labour disruption’ is required to be properly
substantiated in accordance with the ‘Measured Mile’ approach, if deemed appropriate or similar
justifiable means. These costs are not to be based on a theoretical calculation basis only. These costs
require full substantiation of actual costs incurred with clear and supported records and documents.
Disruption costs require further detailed substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when
and how sections of the Subcontract Works were actually disrupted, and by which party.
13.
Acceleration costs (if any) is required to be properly substantiated. These costs are not to be
based on a theoretical calculation only. These costs require full substantiation of actual costs incurred
with clear and supported records and documents. Acceleration costs require further detailed
substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when and how sections of the Subcontract
Works were actually accelerated and how these measures have achieved their respective accelerated
targets. Details of the formal instruction to accelerate which the Subcontractor should have received
from TCA-JV or the Engineer/Employer should also be provided.
14.
Subcontractor’s Overhead costs is required to be properly substantiated, where auditable
financial company reports can be provided for the previous 4 years to demonstrate the Subcontractor’s
Overheads on a yearly % basis. Emden’s or Hudson’s Formulae are not to be used. An average %
overhead calculation is to be shown (per year) for any year provided, which should not include Profit.
Profit is excluded for EoT cost submission purposes. The overhead should be expressed as % for each
year provided with the supporting company financial audit reports to demonstrate how that % was
calculated for that given year. Alternatively, actual Company Overheads can be provided and
substantiated for the project as a whole.
15.
Subcontractors cost documentation, substantiation and supporting files are to be provided on
disc, in a structured manner which can be followed. PDF and Excel copies (cost calculation sheets) of all
documents are to be clear and readable, copies which are unreadable or poorly scanned will be
returned in full. Language needs to be in English (for all documents) and any translation required will be
the Subcontractor’s responsibility to provide.
16.
Subcontractors are required to submit all substantiation of prolongation costs in a monthly
breakdown format. Invoices and back up data needs to be allocated clearly to the month where the
costs are actually incurred. This will identify the actual costs incurred in each respective month.
17.
All summary, primary and secondary calculation sheets (cost summary sheets) are to be
provided in both PDF and Excel formats.

18.
All cost substantiation and supporting documentation is to be referred to and related to the Abu
Dhabi Airport Project in some form, which clearly identifies that the cost data provided is related solely
for the purpose of this project only.
Conclusion:Subcontractors cost substantiation is to be provided in a ‘structured format’ and in a ‘properly organized
manner’ professionally and clearly presented and easy to follow which reflects the sections and cost
headings in the overall cost summary sheet (sample provided).
This will enable TCA-JV and the Engineer’s Auditors to follow the costs in a constructive and organized
manner. It is also imperative that every Subcontractor carries out its’ own ‘internal audits’ of its’ cost
substantiation prior to submission.
Important Notices:TCA-JV and the Engineer shall review the full submission upon receipt of a complete file with the
required level of substantiation. Therefore, TCA-JV urges the Subcontractors to expedite its efforts and
provide full details, cost substantiation and documents in line with the requirements set out.
Yours faithfully,
