
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant informed the Contractor of a
proposed revised configuration of the Entrance 1.2 at Al Sudan Station and that the CPO will shortly be
demobilized and the SAP baseline Rev. V-16 for Al Sudan Station will remain the final revision.

The Contractor ret::ords that the Engineer's Assistant was info_rmed with letter reference 2) that the
Contractor 's design is develqped according to SAP .baseline drawings V15_0 for Al Sudan Station and
that the Contractor hall not accommoda te any further SAPrelated changes to the design unless formally
instructed.

In addition, the Contractor riotes that ''Figure 3 Proposed Geometry' from the _Engineer's Assistant's
letter refererice 1) specifies a run-off distance of 4000 .mm and avers that this is a departure from the
Employer's Requirements as -set-out in Volume 6 Sub-Clauses 11.4.6.8, 11.4.6.13, 11.4.6.15 and
11.4.6.21 of the
·

Coniract.

The Contractor further records that "Figure 1 Entrance 1.2 to the north of Al Waab.Street (Rev V-16)"
and "Figure 2 Proposed Alignment and Layouf' from the Engineer's Assistarit's letter reference 1) show a
different configuration for the Eritrance 1.2 at Al Sudan Station, therefore the Contractor ascertains that
the required Engineer's Instruction has to specify which of the two configurations will be adopted in the
Contractor's design.

In the event the proposed configuration is instructed, the Engineer's Assistant is requested to clarify
how "implementing the following 90 degrees rotation of the entrr:i_ce will facilitate obtaining the
approvals" for a change that is a departure from "the SAP baseline {RE!.V: V-16)'! that "willremain the
final revision" and with the Centra l Planning Office demobilized as the Engineer's Assistant informed
the Contractor.

Notwithstanding, if the above change is required to be incorporated in the design, the Contractor
hereby requests the Engineer's Assistant to obtain the Employer's written confirmation of its agreement
to implement the change and instruct accordingly in order to minimize abortive design.

This change constitutes a Variation and upon receipt of the Engineer's instruction, the Contractor shall
proceed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13 (Variations and Adjustments] of Volume 3 Conditions of Contract.

Finally, the Ccintractor-7e-;ords the Enginee(s A si stant's approachto provide "kno'wn-fnformation
atthe·····- earliest possible juncture in order to allow the Contractor to mitigate impact on ELS design and
excavation" as
a result of the fact that "the Contractor is mobilizing for Subway construction at this Location" and avers
that, in order to mitigate the impact of this change on the on-going design and construction, the Works
for the Entrance 1.2 at Al Sudan Station can be suspended pending receipt of the Engineer's Instruction.

Therefore, the Engineer's Assistant is hereby requested to confirm whether the Contractor is instructed
to suspend the Works for the Entrance 1.2 at Al Sudan Station pursuant to Sub-Clause 8.8 of the
Contract in order to mitigate the impact of this change on the on-going design and construction.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor hereby informs the Engineer's Assistant that the design and
construction of the Entrance 1.2 at Al Sudan Station is progressing according to SAP baseline drawings
V15_0 for Al Sudan Station and without the incorporation of the revised configuration, unless instructed
otherwise.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
