
Dear sir
The contractor confirms receipt of letter wherein the subcontractor claims that the other subcontractor
damages the works:
1.
In its letters reference 3 the subcontractor attached an observation report which consist of a
simple recollection of pictures, however, no clear evidence is provided in this report that the damage
was actually caused by the wrongdoing of the personnel employed by CSCEC. The contractor reiterates
that the subcontractor shall provide irrefutable evidence that the damage was caused by the other
subcontract in question and/or obtain a statement from the contractor / other subcontractor identifying
the culpable party.
2.
Further, the observation report attached to the subcontractors letter reference 3 provides
neither any evidence not any explanation on how the subcontract works were protected. The contractor
repeats that, pursuant to clauses 15.6.2 and 24.2.1 of the conditions of subcontract, the subcontractor
shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection of each part of the
subcontract works until such time as the TOC certificate is issued by the contractor
3.
In its latest letter reference 1 the subcontractor has just attached some emails sent to the
contractor’s team regarding the damage, however the subcontractor has conveniently omitted the
response given by the contractor on the 7 January 2018 wherein the subcontractor was advised that a
statement from CDCEC or photographic evidence of the damage occurring would be required to clearly
verify that CSCEC was indeed who damaged the glass

4.
Yet again, the subcontractor’s letter reference 1 does not provide sufficient level of information
vis-‘a-vis the cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of the claim.
5.
Despite the lack of evidence provided thus far, the contractor confirms that the subcontractor’s
report has been forwarded to CSEC for its review. Should CSCE provide any comments, these will be
forwarded to the subcontractor in due course.
Should the subcontractor intend to claim compensation vis-‘a-vis this incident, the subcontractor is
reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within 28 days from the date of the events
which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirement of clause 27.1.5 of the conditions of
subcontract.
The contractor urges the subcontractor to comply with all the above as this will form part of the basis of
the contractors assessment.
Yours faithfully,
