Subject:

Delay Notice No. 518 - Update
Delays to Access – APM Zone 3 – Due to Activities of Other Contractor (CCC)

Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the above correspondence and in particular its letter dated 8 August 2016 (ref:
9) and hereby submits this Update to Delay Notice No. 518 in accordance with Conditions of Contract
(CC) Clause 16.5.2 and Sub-Clause 27.1.1, in respect of the on-going delays to the Contractor’s access to
AMP Zone 3 caused by the activities of the Engineer and / or the Employer’s Other Contractor (CCC).
1.0
Basis of Update
Background
1.1
In order to construct the APM tunnel within Zones 1, 2 and 3, the APM contractor (CCC), with
the approval of the Engineer, constructed slope protection piles besides Gatehouses GH19 and GH20 at
+14.00 which is below the existing ground level (+17.00). However, due to the excavation of these piles
(i.e. 3 meters lower than intended), this has impacted the space allocated between the piles and the
Gatehouse walls; and similarly impacted upon the routing of the access road located in and adjacent to
Zone 3. The access road being essential in allowing the MTB Contractor access around the periphery of
the MTB, as well as facilitating access into the MTB for site deliveries etc.
1.2
The Engineer / CCC subsequently requested full access to Zone 3 to construct the APM.
However, this gave rise to concerns from the MTB Contractor about maintaining access; particularly as
the MTB Contractor’s Level L2.0 steel ramps (i.e. North and South ramps), had been, and continue to be,
used to deliver materials into the MTB and remove steel towers and is using that access road.
1.3
These concerns are supported by the Contractor’s e-mail to the Employer dated 30 June 2016
[3:29pm] (ref: 1), and attached Sketch No. 001 dated 31 May 2016 entitled ‘TCA JV Comments Concern
on AMP Head House Traffic Road Diversion’. The Contractor confirmed that it had cleared the area of
Zone 3 (in accordance with the attached layout) but in order to close the existing access route, required
further clarity on the routing and traffic management arrangements.
1.3.1 Superimposing of CCC ramp and its impact on the access to/from GH20 – still unclear;
1.3.2 Sign of and agreed plan of ‘TCA JV Comments Concern on AMP Head House Traffic Road
Diversion’ as well as the Employer’s / Engineer’s concerns on traffic management;

1.3.3 Road closure plan for protection installation – showing planned closure dates; and
1.3.4 Since traffic diversion is facilitating one way traffic, an alternative route to be set out on the
plane to divert the traffic and reduce traffic accumulation on the diversion.
1.4
Following meetings that same day (i.e. 30 June 2016), the Employer e-mailed the Engineer (with
a copy to the MTB Contractor and APM Contractor) at 4:59pm (ref: 2) advising that it had ‘understood’
and ‘agreed’ with the Contractor’s concerns with the amount of general traffic movements though the
last diversion into Zone 4 and the restrictions therein. Amongst other things, the Employer also advised
that having inspected the new road position, it seems necessary that the general traffic around the site
is diverted to the far east road around the back of the APM tunnel zone and only the MTB Contractor’s
traffic that is accessing the North and South ramps or the east façade, should use the new road. While
in direct response to the Contractor’s concerns regarding the lack of clarity on the proposed routing and
traffic management arrangements, the Employer requested input from the APM Contractor on its access
ramp and protection measures before excavations commence; the Employer also recording that “Traffic
management will be required accordingly”.
1.5
The APM Contractor responded on 3 July 2016 (2:02pm) (ref: 3) and amongst other things,
attached a copy of the MTB Contractor’s Sketch No. 001 [paragraph 1.3 refers] with the APM
Contractor’s ramp location for Zone 3 superimposed upon it. However, the APM Contractor advised
that notwithstanding that the sketch had been prepared by the MTB Contractor, it nevertheless
understood that the traffic protection measures will be installed in accordance with its proposal and
maintained by the APM Contractor, but the traffic management items (flagmen, traffic lights etc.), will
be operated and maintained by the MTB Contractor and not the APM Contractor.
1.6
The MTB Contractor responded and in an e-mail also issued on 3 July 2016 (2:30pm) (ref: 4),
reminded the APM Contractor that the MTB Contractor is not responsible for implementing or operating
the traffic diversion and require sight of the full traffic diversion scheme and the Engineer’s ‘formal’
confirmation that the roads to GH19 and GH20 are structurally safe; and advising that these two
requirements were to be addressed and cleared prior to handing over the remainder of Zone 3.
1.7
Following a further meeting held on 13 July 2016 in order to discuss the APM traffic diversion,
the Engineer issued an e-mail on 14 July 2016 (5:29pm) (ref: 5) outlining a series to tasks to be
completed by the APM Contractor, the MTA Contractor, the MTB Contractor and the Employer’s
Security. This included the MTB Contractor being required to provide a manned security check point at
Pier 2 junction and flagmen controlling access into Zone 4 and both North and South Ramps.
1.8
However, on 16 July 2016 (5:22pm) (ref: 6), the Contractor reminded the Employer that Zone 3
cannot be excavated until it receives confirmation that the road structure in front of GH19 and GH20 is
safe, as well as further advising the Employer that the implementation of this major traffic diversion is
the responsibility of others and as such will not provide any resources without Instruction.
1.9
The following day, i.e. on 17 July 2016 (12:26pm) (ref: 7), the Engineer e-mailed amongst others,
the MTB Contractor as well as the APM Contractor and MTA Contractor, advising that as of 18 July 2016
the traffic diversion around the APM tunnel, will take effect as illustrated in the attached sketch.
1.10 Sometime later however, on 5 August 2016, the APM Contractor placed a set of precast
concrete protective units (i.e. shells) at the bottom of the North Ramp, thereby rendering it blocked and
preventing the MTB Contractor from gaining access to and from the North Ramp into the MTB.
1.11 However, during a conversation between the Contractor and CCC on 6 August 2016 and again
on 7 August 2016, CCC informed the Contractor that the Engineer has instructed CCC not to follow the
agreed alignment plan [previously issued to the Contractor on 17 July 2016] and proceed to place the
precast units so as to block the North Ramp some 5m from the agreed line. Unfortunately, the
Contactor was unable to deliver steel to the North Retail Area as well as prevented from removing any
of its temporary steel towers from inside the MTB via the North Ramp.

1.11.1 This is despite the ‘P2-P3 Zone 3 Head Route Traffic Diversion’ (agreed between the MTB and
APM Contractors) and issued to the Contractor by the Engineer on 17 July 2016, clearly showing that the
diversion plan would not impact on the North Ramp.
1.12 This was recorded in the MTB Contractor’s e-mail to the Engineer dated 7 August 2016
(4:56pm), (ref: 8) which also served to record the MTB Contractor’s frustration and disappointment that
the APM diversion agreement previously reached between the MTB and APM Contractors for “this
difficult logistic location” has not been honoured; and the Engineer’s staff who instructed the APM
Contractor to place the precast concrete units in a location contrary to that agreed arrangement, failed
to understand the importance attached to the Contractor’s right of access to the MTB.
1.13 However, in a further communication that the MTB Contractor had with the APM Contractor on
7 August 2016, in which the MTB Contractor requested that APM Contractor remove the last precast
unit to allow the ramp to reopen, APM Contractor advised the MTB Contractor that they were under
clear instruction from the Engineer not to remove any precast protective units (shells).
1.14 The various matters described at paragraph 1.10 to 1.13 associated with the APM Contractor’s /
Engineer’s failure to remove the precast concrete barriers (shells) from APM Zone 3, and the direct and
consequential impact this had on the Contractor’s ability to deliver steel to the North Retail Area and /
or remove temporary steel towers from inside the MTB via the North ramp, was recorded in the
Contractor’s Delay Notice No. 518 dated 8 August 2016 (letter ref: 9).
1.15 This coincided with a Coordination Meeting held on 8 August 2016 , attended by the Employer,
the Engineer and MTB Contractor, recorded in the Engineer’s letter dated 15 August 2016 (ref: 10).
1.16 This records that a short term solution / agreement had been purportedly reached to reorientate the precast concrete barriers (shells) to maintain traffic flow to the exiting ramp, as well as
record that a long term solution was also proposed, in so far as by the time the APM Contractor’s
excavations would have progressed to the proximity of the ramp, the MTB Contractor would have
modified their earth ramp to suit site conditions where the AMP Contractor will have full access to Zone
3 and the MTB Contractor will have continuous traffic flow on the ramp. The Engineer added that these
“agreements were concluded following TCA JV’s proposed traffic model (attached and dated 31 May
2016 and upon which all planning by others was undertaken) being observed to be a non-workable
model upon implementation.”
1.17 The Engineer then requested that the Contractor provide the following details for review:
1.17.1 Detailed schedule for the removal of temporary steel from the MTB;
1.17.2 Committed dates for removal of both north and south ramps;
1.17.3 Suggested modification plans to the earth ramps to allow alignment of the protective barriers
outside the APM Head House Zone 3 and the time for implementation of same.
1.18 However, for the reasons set out in the Contractor’s letter dated 3 September 2016 (letter ref:
11), the Contractor disagrees with the Engineer’s overview and recollection of events; and took the
opportunity in reminding the Engineer of the actual facts of the matter as summarised below:
1.18.1 The Coordination meeting held on 8 August 2016 arose out of the Engineer’s failure to
coordinate the MTB West access requirements, in particular, his independent decision to instruct the
APM Contractor to place precast concrete barriers (shells) onto the road of the North access ramp,
resulting in the stopping of material deliveries and preventing the removal of temporary steel towers
from the MTB.
1.18.2 Although it was agreed during this meeting that the APM Contractor would remove the concrete
shells to facilitate the MTB Contractor’s access to the North ramp, in the event the work was carried out
by the MTB Contractor directly (for and on behalf of the APM Contractor) because the APM Contractor
did not have any cranes to relocate the shells.
1.18.3 The Contractor reminded the Engineer that overall, this ‘failure’ initially arose out of the
Engineer’s decision in approving the APM Contractor to construct their piles at a level lower than

intended and therefore any modifications to the exiting north ramp will not be undertaken unless an
appropriate Engineer’s Instruction. Pending which, any act of prevention or obstruction to the North
Ramp resulting in the Contractor’s Works will be at the risk of and responsibility of the Engineer and not
the Contractor.
1.18.4 Finally, the Contractor took issue with the second paragraph of the Engineer’s letter dated 15
August 2016 (ref: 10) and opined that the statement: “The above agreements were concluded following
TCAJV’s proposed traffic model (attached and dated 31 May 2016 and upon which all planning by others
was undertaken) being observed as a non-workable model upon implementation” is false and incorrect;
and in the Contractor’s opinion, represents an attempt by the Engineer at deflecting attention away
from the Engineer’s failure to accommodate the Contractor’s access requirements to the MTB. To
support this, the Contractor attached a copy of Sketch No. 003 incorporating the Contractor’s comments
that were provided on the Engineer’s traffic diversion scheme that were “completely ignored by the
Engineer.”
1.19 The Contractor concluded its letter dated 3 September 2016 (ref: 11) by reminding the Engineer
that it is the Engineer’s responsibility to provide access to the building, noting that the Contractor was
never made aware of the APM contract either before tender or after tender, not at the time of signing
the Contract. Finally, the Contractor advised the Engineer that it was still pending issuance of an
Instruction in order to cover the cost of the re-orientation of the North Ramp.
1.20 However, three days later on 6 September 2016, the Employer’s (ADAC) Security Team closed
the ramp completely which at the date of preparing this Update to Delay Notice No. 518 (which is 15
September 2016) remains the case and therefore is impacting and continues to impact the ability of the
Contractor to use the North ramp. This includes, without limitation, the Contractor’s Level L2.0
operations and in particular, its ability to deliver and / or remove goods and materials, e.g. its ability to
remove steel access towers as the North Ramp is the only way out due to size of towers.
1.20.1 The Contractor attaches three photographs taken on 7 September 2016 that adequately
illustrates the act of prevention i.e. blocking of the Contractor’s access, which at the risk of being
repetitive, continues up to the date of this writing (i.e. 15 September 2016).
2.0
Summary
2.1
In view of the foregoing, it is evidently clear that the Contractor’s ability to deliver goods and
materials to the North Retail Area of the MTB as well as its ability to remove temporary steel towers
from inside the MTB via the North ramp, is continuing to be delayed by the activities and / or inaction of
the Contractor’s Other Contractor and / or the inaction on the part of Engineer.
2.2
Because of this, the Contractor refutes the Engineer’s allegations contained in the Engineer’s
letter dated 25 August 2016 (ref: 12) that the delays removing the temporary towers are due to any
fault or culpability on the part of the Contractor. Similarly, the Contractor reminds the Engineer that the
matters referenced in letter ref: 12, relating to the purported slow dismantling and removal of these
towers are also still subject to a pending response and decision from the Engineer on the buy-back
provisions and other delivery instructions; letter dated 8 September 2016 (ref: 13) refers.
2.3
Meanwhile, the Contractor is compelled to issue this Update to Delay Notice No. 518 owing to
the on-going delays and disruption that continue to be caused to the Contractor’s Works (in particular,
its L2.0 operations), which will invariably impact on the Time for Completion of the Works.
2.4
The Contractor will continue to review the foregoing delaying event in order to assess the full
extent of the direct and consequential delays to completion of the Works, due to the activities of the
Employer’s Other Contractor (CCC) and / or Engineer resulting in the blocking of access to the bottom of
the North Ramp, causing it to be impassable for the Contractor’s lorries, and the impact that such delays
have had and are continuing to have on the Works, the findings of which will be submitted to the
Engineer in due course, pursuant to the requirement of CC-27.1.5.
Yours faithfully,
