Subject: Notice to Correct- Violation of ADDC's Regulations- LV Building Wire
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above mentioned subject and the letter enclosed which we received from
AECOM recording their serious concerns regarding the violations by you of ADDC's regulations.
The Subcontractor is instructed to immediately take the necessary remedial action to attend to all
the identified deficiencies within your electrical works and provide the rectification measures that
shall be taken to mitigate/recover any further delays. Such measures will cause detrimental
impacts on the subsequent activities, thus has exposed the Contractor to risks of liability, claims,
and losses under the Contract and other subcontracts.
In light of the above, we hereby serve this Notice to Correct, pursuant to Sub-Clause 22.1 [Notice
to Correct] of the Conditions of Subcontract, mandating you to perform due diligence and adapt a
holistic appraisal of your man-power and to expedite and recover the progress of the Subcontract
Works related to the rectification of the identified activities, at no additional cost to the
Contractor, within 3 days from the receipt of this Notice to Correct.
Failing such, the Contractor will be entitled to take immediate actions under the provisions of the
Subcontract in the best interests of the Project, including but not limited to the following:
• Terminate the Subcontract pursuant to Sub-Clause 22.2.2.(b) [Termination by Contractor
for Subcontractor Default];
• Omit any section of the Subcontract Works related to the aforementioned areas and
activities, and instruct another Subcontractor to carry out the omitted works, in
accordance with Sub-Clause 22.2.4 of the Conditions of the Subcontract. In the event of
such omission, the Subcontractor shall have no claims for loss of profit or contribution to
overheads which it would have earned but for such omission and, the provisions of SubClauses
22.3 [Consequences of Termination for Subcontractor Default] to 22.5 [Payment
after Termination for Subcontractor Default] shall apply to such omitted section, as if the
Subcontract had. been terminated in respect of such section;_
• Instigate other such suitable measures, as the Contractor deems required, to recover the

progress of the Subcontract Works related to the aforementioned areas and activities.
In light of the above, we notify Anel that the Engineer has requested the removal from site of
your senior electrical site engineer, Mr. Bonefacio Joaquin. Please advise us of the necessary
steps you will undertake in light of the Engineers request. ·
Furthermore, we reserve our right to recover from you, pursuant to Sub-Clauses 10.3
[Contractor's Claim], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors], 16.6 [Delay Damages]
of the Conditions of Subcontract, all associated costs, losses, expenses and damages that may be
incurred by us, due to your abovementioned failure.
We trust that, you will find the above self-explanatory and take prompt necessary actions as a
matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
