Subject:

Reinforcement Missing from the Site

Dear Sir,
We refer to our ongoing discussions and email correspondences regarding the missing rebars on site and
we wish to clarify our position as discussed below.
Firstly, we would like to point out that our scope of works consists of only the installation of
reinforcement and excludes any material supply of reinforcement. The only materials supply under our
scope of works, as specified in our Quotations and the Letter of Acceptance (LOA) is formwork,
scaffolding, and shoring materials only.
Accordingly, since the beginning of the project the control over the orders and arrangement of
deliveries for all reinforcement materials used for the works on site, has been entirely your (ABJV’s)
responsibility. Therefore, from the commencement of the works, all of the rebars have been ordered
and delivered on site, based on the site program of works, without ADMC’s involvement.
It is worth noting that in numerous instances, many of the rebars delivered and stored on site, have
been delivered significantly much earlier than the planned installation date. An example, is the rebars
for walls at DAF Building from 8.4 m to 13.08, which were delivered to the site in March 2020, but the
planned installation date was much later. We note that the actual installation for this part of the walls,
commenced in October 2020, seven (7) months after the delivery.
As a consequence of these early deliveries, bulk quantities of reinforcement remained unused for a long
period of time at the area allocated by you, where the reinforcement under our scope is stored (Marina
area/yard). This has caused vast quantities of rebars being piled up at the Marina yard in a disorganized
manner which has caused us a lot of delays in the collection of rebars for the works (Figure 1 below
refers). We note that the Marina yard, is an area allocated for offloading and storing of materials, not
only for ADMC but for other Subcontractors working on this Project as well.

Figure 1 – Marina Yard

In addition, it is worth noting once again, that as per the Responsibility Matrix (Quotation ref: ADMCACCIONA-BESIX-DAF-QTE-0127_Rev.05 dated 12 January 2020, Item A2), the unloading of rebar

materials at the site was agreed to be placed within 30m from the fixing location; however, this has not
been materialled yet and is causing a lot of delays.
We also note that the space adjacent to the DAF Building, where we are working, is limited, and for that
reason, the Marina yard continues to be at a distance of about 1km away from the works which is
causing significant delays, in handling, loading, transporting and unloading materials for the works.
Moreover, we also note that in many instances, rebars have also been found at the laydown area, which
is another material laydown area, which where ADMC’s materials are not typically stored. Specifically,
the mentioned rebars in this area, were found without tag numbers. Evidently, this is causing a lot of
disorderliness, loss of materials, as well as, mishandling of materials from other Subcontractors on site.
Some of these issues have already been discussed in our letter ref: ADXB-LTR-2020-0195 dated 19 July
2020, wherein we informed you that this matter is having a detrimental impact on our works and is
delaying the process of finding, selecting, segregating, and loading the suitable rebars for our works.
With the said letter we also requested your support to ensure that the rebars are placed in an orderly
manner and also to an adjacent distance within 30m from the fixing location to avoid any further delays.
However, we regret to note that no action has been taken thus far on your part, and the difficulties and
delays associated with this matter continue to date.
Nevertheless, at the date of writing this letter, this issue has caused a lot of discussions, disagreements,
and consequent delays to the works. An example of the numerous discussions and delays, are the emails
attached to Annex A hereto, wherein a quantity of approximately 22Ton of reinforcement planned to be
installed in our part of the works cannot be found on site.
Therefore, taking into consideration the abovementioned, we put on record that we are not responsible
and we cannot be held liable for the 22 Tons of reinforcement which appear to be missing from the site.
Therefore, your comment in the email dated Tuesday, November 3, 2020 12:37:10 PM attached to
Annex A, stating that “…until ADMC will provide an acceptable justification for the missing rebar
quantity, this additional steel order will be made in ADMC account”, is refuted. In this regard, we note
that we have already explained our position regarding this matter and we hereby expand on our
position via this letter.
Furthermore, in our email dated Saturday, June 20, 2020 9:10:00 AM, attached to Annex B hereto, we
informed you about an incident where your personnel was found to be loading rebars that were
intended and planned to be used in our part of the works. Specifically, one of your foremen, removed
the bar-mark tags and loaded bundles of rebars on a trailer, which were then, taken away to be used in
other parts of the works. We note that we had not been informed about your intention to take rebars
which were intended to be used by us, and no prior coordination was carried out between us. We also
note that this was not the first time, that reinforcement planned to be installed by us, was taken from
the Marina yard and was used elsewhere.
This issue has become even more complicated since, on or about the beginning of June 2020, after your
request, we have taken control of the reinforcement orders to the site. Thus, from June 2020 onwards,
we are placing the orders of reinforcement via emails, and the reinforcement is delivered and placed in
the Marina yard.

Given the above, we have now found ourselves in a situation where, circa 22 Tons appear to be missing
from the site, and as per the emails attached to Annex A hereto, ABJV is seeking to backcharge the
amount of this quantity on our account, which we strongly object.
We have also attached to Annex C hereto, another email dated Thursday, November 12, 2020 5:01:21
PM, which is self-explanatory. Specifically, the email is regarding several rebars intended to be installed
by us on the DAF Building walls. However, these rebars were found to be cut and bent by you or other
Subcontractors, for works other than the works which were allocated to be installed to. These rebars
were found in the laydown area, which as mentioned above, is not an area dedicated for ADMC’s
materials.
Consequently, we would like to clarify that we will not accept any backcharge for any reinforcement
quantity missing from the site. Therefore, we kindly request you to take all necessary measures and
arrange the delivery of the assumed missing quantity of reinforcement required for the works to avoid
any further delays to the completion of the works.
Moreover, we strongly advise you to address the disorganization issue of the Marina yard immediately,
and conduct a survey, segregate the rebars properly and assess the effective utilization of the rebars
with the aim of improving and optimizing the utilization. Once this is established, we can then
reevaluate the quantities of rebars and the relevant circumstances accordingly.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, and you will carry out the necessary action as a
matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,.
