
Potential Impact:
Acts of prevention such as those outlined above, will at this stage of the Works, prevent us from
obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical is us achieving Milestone MS09B, and
if in the event matters such as these will continue, then the more likely these will invariably knock-on
and resultantly prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required:
Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0087 [post-SAA8]
Installation of Hollow Metal Doors - Unreasonable Status Code 3 Comments issued in response to Work
Inspection Requests (WIRs) - Update
Dear Sir
This letter serves as an update to E-Notice No. 0087 issued by way of our letter ref: (1).
By way of reminder, our E-Notice No. 0087 sent via letter ref (2), notified you about numerous Work
Inspection Requests (WIRs) following our request for final inspection and approval of the installation of
numerous Hollow Metal Doors and Hardware that were subjected to a series of unreasonable Status
Code 3 comments. Although our E-Notice No. 0087 focussed on the unreasonable comments endorsed
on seven (7) WIRs covering the installation of 12 Hollow Metal Doors and Door Hardware to Gatehouses
GH01, GH02, GH47, GH48 and GH49, we made in abundantly clear at the time that there were
potentially 100’s of WIRs the responses to which contained similar unreasonable comments; this had
the potential to affect to all of the areas of the Main Terminal Building (CPA and Piers 1 to 4).
However, despite us providing various indicative examples of the types of comments endorsed on the
WIR responses justifying precisely why the inspectors’ comments were unreasonable and urging you to
retract the Status Code 3 comments and re-issue the WIRs [certainly for the seven WIRs subject to our
letter ref: 1), we note that to-date, no action has been taken on your part to re-code them.
We also made it clear in letter ref: (1) that we would be reviewing all of the responses to all of the WIRs
subject to your unreasonable Status Code 3 responses to determine the exact quantity of doors
affected. We have now completed this exercise and at Annex A hereto, is a detailed list of all the WIRs
containing unreasonable comments, which are of a similar nature as those identified in our letter ref: 1);
this information [detailed in Annex A] demonstrates that 932 nos. of doors are affected.
We reiterate that such comments are without doubt unreasonable and are in indicative of general
comments reflecting the opinion of the inspector as opposed to specific comments. Consequently, we
once again urge you to withdraw the comments and annotate each WIR Status Code 2 or higher.
Meanwhile, we maintain that the various events and circumstances detailed herein constitute acts of
prevention and/or breaches of Contract on the part of the Employer’s Personnel and therefore give you
notice, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, of our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
