Subject: Subsidence - lack of complete and coordinated economic and appropriate design solution to the
subsidence of the sewer and storm-water
Dear Sirs,
infrastructure
We refer to our above noted letter and to a number of prior items of correspondence raising concern
at the amount of time it is still taking for the Engineer to issue a complete and coordinated set of
instructions that will allow us to plan, procure and execute the remedial works to the subsiding
sewer, drainage and other mains services. Furthermore, the piecemeal and considerably delayed
instructions received to date do not cover the subsiding duct banks and at the time of writing, are
just beginning to address the supporting of the higher level storm-water services.
We are concerned on a number affronts:
1. Your ability to take advantage of the project insurances is predicated on the remediation of
subsiding mains services. It is thought that permeation grouting is being specified by your
designers because it actually offers a soil improvement advantages which may fall outside of
your insurance. There are possibly cheaper, quicker and specifically engineered solutions that
would give certainty of support to these services but would not remediate one of the possible
root causes of this matter, being the specified backfill materials (see RJB Report 7 July 2019
conclusion items 9 a.-c.);
2. The permeation grouting solution is now being extended to areas that it is believed are not
directly connected with the original subsidence but that have arisen because of the method
of inundation water testing instructed by the Engineer that has directly led to significant
subsidence b-eing observable over a number of days and from which tests water appears to
have infiltrated and caused subsidence under areas of GSE road, wing walls and apron;
3. Small diameter HDPE pipes at relatively high levels and not on the mains services routes are
being included in extensive permeation grouting requirements;
4. There are still areas of ground for which we have recently been instructed to provide yet more

CPT: we have had to bring the test rig back to the site again having completed the previous
series of disjointed and protracted testing regimes when both we and the remediation
specialists consider these to be unnecessary, given your designer's maxim that we need to
achieve a CPT number at 30, which can be monitored in situ as work proceeds;
5. The projected programme and total costs for this work continues to rise: you will recall that
at the time of the SAA8 and the understanding in principle to the execution of its
supplementary agreement, a figure of AED 200m was proposed as a reasonable estimate of
the overall cost that would be reimbursed to us. Since then we have issued warnings of the
time and amount being spent just on investigation work which currently stand at 9 months
and circa AED 40m. When we reported an update to that budget at AED 365m in the above
noted letter issued eight days ago we had not included any duct bank or storm-water line
grouting and were still awaiting instructions for further areas of remediation.
Last week we issued a high level programme incorporating the then instructed scope and that
showed that the works could not complete before October 2020. Whilst one can argue over
acceleration and increased resources it is clear that with the introduction of duct bank
remedials and storm-water line grouting (with the specific logistics issues this presents), then
however the works are resourced and planned it is unlikely the current scope can be
completed until the third quarter of next year;
6. In spite of project documentary evidence certified by the Engineer, together with 3rd party
engineering reports commissioned by us from RJ Bird (RJB), all of which clearly show that we
have constructed the Works in accordance with the Contract, it seems the Engineer and your
specialist designers remain of the opinion that the fault in the subsiding infrastructure does
not lay with the IFC documentation. We have repeatedly requested a determination by the
Engineer on the root cause of this failure and, having received nothing but opaque references
to future revelations, through our lawyers we have engaged a 3rd Party Expert to give opinion
on this key matter. Our concern as repeatedly expressed is not only that responsibility does
not lay with us but that the remedials currently instructed may only be a temporary fix
because the root cause may lay at a level beneath the proposed discontinuous grout improved/
reinforced soil crust. Further and perhaps more significant subsidence will
thereafter become evident and which as a result of this 'crust' may be even more difficult to
remediate.
We have received a further update on the RJB report, a summary of which is appended to this
letter: we would draw your attention to item the Conclusion section 9 where at second items
b & c our activities are once again exonerated from the likely causes of the failure. Indeed if
one reads the second sentence in paragraph 4 of the Report Summary it is stated that in
respect of subsided manholes: 'It is important to note that past backfilling records show that
some manholes are founded on backfill soil placed before MTB and pule cap contract
commenced'. In other words subsidence has occurred on areas that were 'original ground
levels' so far as the MTB Works are concerned.
We respectfully suggest that the current protective and adversarial approach being taken to this
matter by the Engineer and your design consultants and to which we have no alternative other than
to react accordingly, is not helping either programme or cost control and is to the detriment of the
best interests of all Parties to this Project. We feel that a review period where the root cause is
determined which will lead to a permanent solution to this problem will allow the unfettered input
from all parties in finding the best way forward. We certainly have no fear ofthe truth being revealed
and are frustrated by our inability to control this matter as it is not our responsibility: we cannot but
think that if this remediation had been a contractor designed issue then we would already have been
nearing the completion of the work with time and cost certain and controlled.

We strongly urge that a moratorium be placed on instructions from the Engineer, and that all
remedial works are suspended pending a complete review and possibly expert-driven sanity check
being made of the current situation. In parallel we will continue procurement without placing
committed orders in respect of the current scope of works and will work up a more detailed,
resource-loaded programme that recognises the logistical constraints resulting from the fact that
part ofthe Airport may well be in public use from a date to be advised by you but that it is likely will
be during the first quarter of 2020.
We look forward to your urgent and positive response.
Yours faithfully,
