Subject: Commercial Meeting with the Engineer 29 April 2018
Dear Sir,
Further to the receipt of the above referenced letter dated 03 May 2018 regarding the meeting held
with
the Employer and Engineer to discuss various commercial proposals, we clarify as follows
The Engineer has confirmed that it rejects any additional costs to provide the GID Printer Solution. The
solution is required in order to comply with the IFC information. Therefore, the Subcontractor shall
provide a compliant technical solution without any additional cost in accordance with the requirements
of
the Specifications. The Subcontractor shall be solely responsible for any delay due to its failure to
provide
a compliant solution to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
The Engineer dismisses any entitlement for additional costs due to the Employer's Design Consultants
response to the RFI raised by the Subcontractor. It is noted that the Subcontractor raised the RFI despite
the existence of IFC design. It gave no indication that relocation of the Workstations would incur any
additional costs. The design information was given in a timely fashion and therefore any delay is due to
the Subcontractor's failure to act.
The Engineer confirmed it does not wish to take up the Subcontractor's proposal to provide furniture in
the L3A rooms. The Subcontractor should raise an appropriate RFI to clarify any further query. The
provision of furniture has no bearing on the Subcontractors ability to progress with its Works.
The Engineer rejects any entitlement to additional costs to implement the proposed Oversize Detection
modifications. These modifications are required due to a deficiency in the Subcontractors design noted
during Site Testing. The Subcontractor is responsible for providing a Baggage Handling System fit for
purpose in compliance with the Specification. Any delay that may occur due to the need to modify the
existing system is solely the responsibility of the Subcontractor
Subject:

Re: Central Processor Level 2, Pier 1 Connection – Instruction to Close Metal Ceiling - CVI

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) regarding the subject matter and we inform you that we
acknowledge the content therein. Please proceed and complete the works in a timely manner pursuant
to the provisions under Clause 16.3 [Subcontract Programme] of the Subcontract Agreement.
We hereby remind you that you are responsible to ensure that the Works are coordinated properly with
other trades and/or subcontractors prior to the installation to avoid any clashes and rework pursuant to
the provisions under Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] of the Subcontract
Agreement.

We are confident that you will comply with the above information and that you will proceed with due
diligence to complete the Works by the target completion date and ensure that any damages are
avoided.
The above is for your information, record and further immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
