Dear Sir,

This is a notice under Sub-Clause 19.2.1 of the Contract dated 23rd April 2014 for the Gold Line
Underground ("Contract) that the Contractor is or will be prevented from performing its obligations
under the Contract by Force Majeure.

The particulars of this claimed Force Majeure are as follows:

(a)
The closure of the land, sea and air border between Qatar and Saudi Arabia by the Saudi Arabian
Government and the closure of the air and sea borders by both the Bahraini and United Arab Emirate
Governments prevents any Goods being brought into the State of Qatar from the surrounding GCC

(b)
The Contractor has Goods that it has procured from the GCC and surrounding countries that are
currently in transit to the State of Qatar but due to the only land border being closed, such Goods may
not arrive in a timely manner therefore delaying the execution of the Works. A non-exhaustive list of the
MEP and architectural Goods currently in transit and the country of origin that cannot enter the State of
Qatar via the Saudi Arabian border are as follows:

i)

Stone M01 - Egypt.

ii)
GRP S02 Shelter - UAE (2 potentialsuppliers) Bahrain (another supplier). iii)
and Fayade: UA E.
iv)

Terrazzo Floor: raw material from Europe, however, main distributor in UAE.

Glazing Internal

ALYSJ
joint venture

v)

Gypsum Boards: Saudi Arabia.

vi)

Mineral Acrylic: UAE.

vii)

Ceramic tiling: Europe originally, distributor in UAE.

viii)

Metal cladding: UAE.

ix)

Doors - BoH: Saudi Arabia and UAE.

x)

Doors - FoH: UAE.

xi)

Ironmongery: UAE.

xii)

Closed cell elastometric thermal insulation: Saudi Arabia

xiii)

Support & fixing systems: UAE

xiv)

Phenolic inserts: UAE

xv)

Flexible duct: UAE

xvi)

Threaded & grooved fittings: UAE

xvii)

Foamglass insulation: Saudi Arabia

xviii)

Copper pipes & fittings: UAE

xix)

Floor drains: UAE

xx)

Conduit & fittings: Saudi Arabia

xxi)

Cable tray & trunking: UAE

Both Parties have a contractualobligation to 'useits best endeavours to minimize any delay in
theperformance of the Contract as a result of Force Majeure' pursuant with the provisions of GCC Cl
19.3.1. Given that the Contractor is unable to predict when the border situation might return to normal,
the Contractor seeks an instruction from the Engineer regarding the placement of orders with
alternative suppliers and the arrangement of freight/cargo through alternative border crossings.

Yours faithfully,
