
Dear Sir,

As announced by the Contractor vide Contractor’s letter of reference 1) the Contractor encloses
herewith the final submission of requested particulars pertaining to the valuation of 1:1 Mock-Up works
on the basis of its actual and future anticipated design, procurement, construction and running
expenses.

Letter reference 1) provided full particulars of 2) a “Comprehensive Bill of Quantities of all works
involved”, 3) “Evidence of all activities and related breakdown” and 4) “Evidence of the interrelation
between the Bill of Quantities and the documents attached to the aforementioned Contractor’s letter”
as requested via the Engineer’s Assistant letter reference 2).

This letter responds, by means of Appendix F – Proofs of Payment, to the last outstanding item
requested by the Engineer’s Assistant in letter reference 2), i.e. 1) “the total and certified cost to date”.

The Bill of Quantities, Appendix A to letter reference 1), collects over a thousand (1000) individual items
contained in more than two-hundred (200) WOs, POs and HOs associated to the execution of the works
of the 1:1 Mock-up. The separate submission of Appendix F is due to the large number of documents
that had to be retrieved and reviewed in order to provide an accurate status of payments and proof
thereof.

Appendix F therefore includes an overall summary of certified and paid amounts to date. In addition to
that, it includes detailed breakdowns presenting the payment status of each individual work order (WO),
purchase order (PO) and hire order (HO). Finally, Appendix F provides a sample of over sixty (60) POs,
WOs and HOs and, furthermore, full payment particulars for three (3) POs and three (3) WOs, providing
complete payment certifications down to individual checks or bank transfer copies.

To navigate Appendix F, the Engineer’s Assistant can find the summaries of the payment status in the
respective summary tables.

Overall Payment Summary

F / p.1

Summary of WO Payment status

F / p.2

Summary of PO Payment status F / p.176

Summary of HO Payment status F / p.245
Table 1: Index to Payment Summaries in Appendix F

In continuation of the previous submission vide letter reference 1) the seamless link between the
comprehensive Bill of Quantities, Appendix A to the Contractor’s letter reference 1), and the evidence of
all activities, Appendices B, C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K and L to the Contractor’s letter reference 1), is hereby
extended to the payment status. Page references have been added to each line item of Appendices B, C,
D, E, G, H, I, J, K and L, providing a direct link to additional proof of payment documentation as may be
enclosed in Appendix F. The updated Appendices B, C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K and L are therefore also attached
to this letter and supersede the previously submitted respective Appendices of letter reference 1).

Additional access to documentation and soft copies, will be given to the Engineer’s Assistant on an item
by item basis, as the Engineer’s Assistant may deem necessary to conduct additional auditing. The
Contractor has gone to great length to respond to the Engineer’s Assistant’s requests issue of letter
reference 2), and even exceeded the requests, by providing this large amount of information in the most
comprehensive and manageable manner. With this final submission the Contractor considers all
requests issue of letter reference 2) to be fully and comprehensively answered.

Yours faithfully,
