Subject:
Wall System

Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-to-

Dear Sir,
In continuation to our meetings regarding the above subject and in relation with our letter referred
hereabove, we would like to record our concern that there has not been any official response to our
letter and the matter is still open without a resolution. Therefore, to provide clarity, we have
summarised the main points of our letter, in an effort to reach a resolution to enable us to proceed with
the works without further delay. The detailed history of events has already been provided via our
previous letter, thus we hereby provide only a summary of the main points.
It is noteworthy to reiterate that the responsibility for the design of the works and consequently design
compliance with the codes and Local Authority requirements remains solely with the Employer.
During the Tender the Employer via the response to RFC-701 within the Tender Bulletins, specified GYB01 (regular non-fire rated gypsum board) to be used in egress passageways. The response further states
that “rated ceilings at egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings to be issued at a later date)”.
Please note that after the submission of BAFO but prior to the signing of the Contract, the new system
introduced by the Engineer Detail No. 8 (via revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A 62 TB_L_._ _._ 00.640
D_ dated 24 May 2012 and subsequently via Issued For Construction (IFC) MTC A 62 TB_L_._ _._ 00.640
00 dated 15 July 2012), has no cross reference of this section in the IFC ceiling drawings. Moreover, the
drawing indicated GYB-04 gypsum board which was in contradiction to the previous comments made on
the Tender Bulletins, wherein you specified GYB-01.

Additionally, after investigating the matter it is evident that the referred section cannot be considered a
2-hour fire rated ceiling system from both sides due to the fact that it has exposed framing structure in
the ceiling void which does not meet the Civil Defence Requirements (ADCD).
In addition to the above, we have not been able to locate a manufacturer that can provide certification
from ADCD for this system. This was also raised in one of our meetings/presentations with the
Employer/Engineer where it was mentioned that we would be provided with a manufacturer that would
provide certification, which to date we have not received anything.
In addition to the above our opinion is based on the below facts:
i.
There is no certification available for a horizontal shaft wall system to be used as a 2 hour rated
ceiling system;
ii.
We have not been able to find a manufacturer that can provide the system required by the
Engineer certified by ADCD;
iii.
The IFC drawings do not define from which direction the 2-hour fire rated should be considered;
iv.
There is a contradiction on the IFC drawings A42 series which state a “2-hour fire rated” ceiling
with no tag indicated, but the legend shows the ceilings as GYB-01 which is a regular non-fire rated
gypsum board;
v.
A system with top and bottom fire rated gypsum boards in various areas in the project has
already been agreed in principle as a Variation via RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 dated 23 January
2018.
In view of the above points you are kindly requested the following:
i.
Provide certification for the requested system to be used as a 2-hour fire rated ceiling system;
ii.
Kindly advise on points (ii, iii, iv) above;
iii.
To obtain approval for the requested system from ADCD;
iv.
Accept that the changes constitute a Variation.
We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
and advise on the issues raised above and in our letter referenced (1) to avoid further delays.
At this juncture, we reserve all of our rights derived under the Contract and inform you that we will not
be held liable for any delays in regards to this matter.
Yours faithfully,
