
Subject:Re: Letters from the Project Director
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (7) above sent to our Board of Directors, wherein you have
stated your dissatisfaction in regards to our letters sent to you related to open work-fronts, delays and
outstanding Sub-subcontractor payments. We hereby respond as follows:
These direct communications to the Joint Venture’s Board Members without our knowledge are
hampering our efforts to ensure a coherent flow of information between the Parties. Please be informed
that you should diligently, at all times follow the Subcontract Agreement’s Protocol in regards to
communication. This type of behavior is totally unacceptable and you are hereby informed that all the
communications regarding the Subcontract should be conducted directly through us. Please note that
such direct communication on any issue related to the Subcontract is considered as a general breach of
the Subcontract Agreement. Failure to comply with the above may prejudice both your entitlement in
any matter and our opportunity to investigate and take appropriate action for any matter accordingly,
related to the Subcontract.
In regards to your first point, where you have stated that our letters-notifications reference (1 & 3)
“contain wild inaccuracies”, we inform you that our said letters have been prepared with due diligence
after discussion with our construction and upper management staff and are presenting the actual facts
on site. Moreover, we refer to your comment made about “[…] our attempt to invent non-existent
evidence […]” and we hereby assure you that there is no such attempt as stated in your letter, but our
notifications are to ensure that actions are taken on site, to ensure the smooth progression and
completion of the Subcontract Works. We can also confirm that we have received your response
referenced (6) above to our letters reference (1 & 3) as stated in your letter, which will be replied in
detail in due time. However, your response reference (6) to both of our letters, does not provide clarity
and/or resolution, but it is an admittance that there are indeed enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed with your Works. In our letter reference (3) we have used your own submitted progress report
as of 22nd February 2018 to extract the information for the available work-fronts.
Furthermore, we acknowledge your contractual right to advise us of any (if any) circumstances causing
delays; however, you also have the contractual responsibility to comply with the conditions of the
Subcontract and ensure that there are available resources on-site, all mitigation measures have been
taken and Works are progressing without delay and are completed on time. Once again we inform you
that we have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the works and you have the obligation to

ensure for the same. We also inform you in regards to your comments that our letters “contained no
photographic evidence”, that our obligation is to inform you about the available work-fronts and your
responsibility and obligation is to act upon and proceed accordingly.
In respect to your points regarding the outstanding payments of the Sub-subcontractor M/s Plus Paint,
you seem in your letter reference (7) to have overlooked our letter reference (5) above which is a
continuation to our letter reference (2), wherein we have requested you to provide some additional
information in an effort to provide clarity and resolve this matter amicably. You have stated that a
response has been provided “clearly setting out” your position and presenting the reasons for
withholding such amount to the Sub-subcontractor. However, with our letter referenced (5) which you
disregarded, we have in detail requested specific information to be provided in regards to the financial
status of M/S Plus Paint, which is yet to be provided. We assure you that we have used our rights
derived from the Subcontract to make certain that the Works progress smoothly without complications
and in no way you have been “threatened” as stated in your letter. For the record, you have been
instructed to submit all reasonable evidence and all information/documents regarding the payment
status of M/S Plus Painting, which is still pending as stated above.
After reviewing the first paragraph of page two (2) of your letter, your intentions are becoming obvious
in respect to the content of your letter reference (7). Consequently, please be informed that to date you
have not submitted any Claim in line with the Subcontract Conditions. Moreover, you are also required
to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each
delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical
Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the Critical
Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your prolongation costs in
the form of a Claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract.
In addition to the above and as mentioned in previous correspondences, please be informed that the
Contractor’s Determination you seek, related to the prolongation costs and the Employer’s related
Variations is subject to the Engineer’s Assessment and Determination pursuant to Clauses 11.4.3 and
11.4.4 [Determinations] of the Subcontract. Consequently, a response will be provided once the
Engineer provides its Determination and/or a response for the same.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and your utmost attention and further action is
required.
Yours faithfully,
