Subject Subcontractor's Variations- Additional Design Fees
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to its letters (1) and (2) wherein the Subcontractor was requested to separate and
provide further substantiation in respect of the additional design fees claimed in its requests for
Variation
Orders. Despite this having been requested a while ago, the Contractor has not yet received a separate
submission which provides sufficient level of information vis-a-vis the claimed additional design fees.
The Contractor reiterates the request, made via the abovementioned correspondence, numerous
meetings and query sheets, that at least the following information is provided:
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in the rates of the Bill of
Quantities. This explanation shall clearly identify both the engineering services which, in the
Subcontractor's opinion, are included in the Subcontract rates and the engineering cost that cannot
be recovered by using such rates.
Detailed explanation on why the 'additional design fee' is not included in any other item of the
Subcontractor's Variation or claim submissions. The Subcontractor shall clarify that this engineering
cost is not being claimed I recovered through preliminaries, acceleration, etc.
Detailed explanation on why the engineering cost has increased.
Detailed particulars of the design deliverable in question that allegedly got aborted prior to its
submission, i.e. for each case provide a timeline, evidence of the incomplete shop drawing I design
calculation etc.
Detailed demonstration that through the 'additional design fee' the Subcontractor is not recovering
abortive design costs associated to engineering errors made by the Subcontractor. Further, the
Subcontractor shall also prove that the 'additional design fee' does not relate to engineering costs
associated to the Subcontractor's base scope of works.
Detailed design cost presentation to the Engineer and the Employer explaining the above.
To be clear, the Subcontractor shall clarify the above listed points whilst providing all necessary
substantiation, i.e. timesheets of hours actually expended, transmittals made when the design was
aborted etc. Please note that since submitting its commercial proposals, the Subcontractor has not
provided the documents required to 'back up' the additional engineering resources claimed. There is no
reason why the Subcontractor has not provided this supporting information thus exacerbating the
Contractor's inability to assess the Subcontractor's entitlement to the 'additional design fee'. Hence, the
Yours faithfully,
