Subject:Third Party Integration with the Base Build
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to receipt of the Engineer’s letter ref: (1) together with enclosures following
various Risk Committee Meetings, the joint meeting held on 6 November 2018, and the ‘AMC Systems
Integration Agreement’ meeting held on 5 December 2018, and wishes to clarify the following in
connection with the requirement for the Contractor to facilitate integration of third party spaces with
the base build services.
As noted within letter ref: (1), the Engineer is of the view that ‘the Contractor [agreed to] to facilitate
the integration of the third party spaces with the base build services (i.e. mapping programming, C&E
testing etc.) in accordance with Clause 2.12 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8
[SAA8].’ Clause 2.12 of SAA8 amended Clause 12.12.2(b) of the General Conditions of Contract [‘Other
Contractors’] such that it now reads ‘The Contractor shall … take such actions as are necessary to
facilitate the work of the Other Contractors including providing … access … and providing Other
Contractors with the opportunity to connect their systems to the systems installed by the Contractor at
times required by the Employer.’
However, while the Contractor agreed in principle to facilitate the integration of third party’s systems
with the Contractor’s base build services, it is important to note that the Contractor will not be able to
do so, if the ‘times required by the Employer’ prove to be poorly coordinated and poorly managed, and
we are required to facilitate the circa 200 third parties in an ad-hoc and piecemeal manner. The
Contractor’s e-mail dated 5 December 2018 attached to letter ref: (1) is synonymous with this very
matter, in which it records that, with the exception of ARCO “… it was agreed that ADAC would aim to
have all 200 number 3rd parties’ integration works done at one time ...” We certainly hope that this
remains the case and that the interfaces between all of the third parties’ systems and our base build
works can be undertaken within one discrete ‘window’; otherwise it is likely to have a detrimental
impact on progress of the MTB Works.
We trust this is clear; especially as it is reasonable to assume that the Employer has reciprocal
contractual obligations placed upon its Other Contractors commensurate with Clause 12.12.2(c), and for
them to cooperate with us and take such actions as are necessary to facilitate the works of the
Contractor and to coordinate their works so as not to obstruct, disrupt or delay work being performed
by the Contractor.
Yours faithfully,
