Dear Sir,

This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 3.3. 1 regarding the execution of the work under the Contract.
The following Employer's Requirements:
Volume 5 Sub-Clause 3.5.9

Event operation shall be based on 50% of the capacity of the Metro system, i.e. allow for 50% of full
train load of passengers arriving or departing from both directions simultaneously at minimum
operational headway; concurrent boarding and alighting is not required. No surge factor shall be
considered.

Volume 5 Sub-Clause 3.5.10
During event operation each passenger shall be provided with 0.5m2 of space at platform level when
one train crush load of boarding passengers is waiting at the platform. The area to be considered as
platform shall be the same as for normal peak operation

are relaxed as follows:

Requirements for Event Stations (Ras Bu Abboud, and Sport City)

Vertical circulation from concourse level to each island platform shall consist of four (4) escalators, two
(2) fixed stairs with a width of 1.4m each, and two (2) elevator

The minimum clear distance between the platform screon doors and the face of the columns I staircases
shall be 2,900m m; and
The minimum width of station entries used for events shall have the same capac!ty as the vertical
circulation elements between concourse level and platform, assum ing all escalators are operated in one
direction and the stairs arn utilized unidirectional in the same direction.
The tirne c;nd cost saving to the Employer will be discussed and agreed at a later date.
Dear Sir,
This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 3.3.1 regarding the execution of the work under the Contract.
The following Empl oyer's Requirement: Volume 6 Sub-Clause 1.4.15.4:
The effects of floatation loads shall be considered in the design of both the Temporary and Permanent
Works. The Contractor shall check the structure's stability for resistance to buoyancy and shall design
the structure such that adequate factors of safety against buoyancy are provided. For this check the selfweight of structural elements and the first stage track concrete shall be the only factors considered.

is relaxed as follows:

The effects of floatation loads shall be considered in the design of both the Temporary and Permanent
Works. The Contractor shall check the structure's stability for resistance to buoyancy and shall design
the structure such that adequate factors of safety against buoyancy are provided. For this check the selfweight of structural elements, the first stage track concrete and the overburden shall be the only factors
considered. A study showing different possible scenarios for future excavations above the stations shall
be considered in the buoyancy check and submitted to the Engineer for SONO.dea
The above has been technically agreed in the Engineering escalation meeting held on 28 January 2015 .
The time and cost saving to the Employer will be discussed and agreed at a later date.

Yours faithfully,
