Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the above referenced correspondences, you
are hereby informed that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (3) above.
To elaborate on this matter, as per our aforementioned letter wherein we have already replied to your
points (1&2) referred in your letter referenced (4), we reiterate once again that the “Monthly Advance
Payments” (MAP) have no correlation with your prolongation cost submissions. To be clear, we have
released the MAP with the genuine intention to aid your cash flow and to prevent any financial
difficulties which you may have to ensure the completion of the Works, taking into consideration that
the Engineer is yet to approve your Prolongation Costs Submissions. However, despite our good efforts
to assist you financially, you have rejected it.
In regards to points (1&2) of your letter, we reiterate the conditions of the Subcontract under Clause
11.4.3 [Determinations] which state that “The Subcontractor agrees that where the Subcontract
provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to agree or determine any
matter, if the matter relates or pertains to a matter which the Contractor has referred to the Engineer
for agreement or determination pursuant to similar provisions under the main Contract, the Contractor
shall be entitled, but not obliged, to rely on the Engineer’s agreement or determination in respect of
such matter”.
Furthermore, Clause 11.4.4 specifies that “The Subcontractor agrees that where the Subcontract
provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to agree or determine any
matter, if the said matter is connected to a related matter under the Contract the Contractor is entitled
(but not obliged) to rely upon the Engineer’s agreement or determination, and if so advised the
Subcontractor shall be bound by and give effect to the Engineer’s agreement or determination, subject
to the provisions of clause 11.4.2”.
In light of the above, it is apparent that since your Prolongation Costs Submission is indeed subject to
the Engineer’s approval, we as the Contractor, contractually are not able to determine this matter prior
the Engineer’s determination and consequently not obligated to release any payments related to your
Prolongation Costs Submission. Please also be informed that we have not been issued any 'preliminary
determination' by the Engineer for any of the submissions made on behalf of our Subcontractors
Prolongation Costs.
In respect to your comment about a potential dispute, we reiterate that the Subcontract Agreement is
clear as to the procedures in place which need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance
of a Dispute Notice. Accordingly, you are required to give a notice (a Dispute Notice) of the dispute and
thereafter enter into discussions with us in an attempt to settle the dispute. In the event we could not

amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause
27.3.2 [Dispute Resolution].
We hope that the above clarifies our position in the matter.
Yours faithfully,
