Subject:Initial Review of the Subcontractor’s Disruption Claim No.5
Dear Sir/Madam,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of M/S Mosart’s letter reference (1) above, which has provided
‘Claim no.5 Disruption to site installation, engineering and factory production’. Upon an initial review of
the aforementioned letter and its supporting particulars, the Contractor would like to highlight the
following observations/discrepancies for Mosart’s immediate attention:
1.
In general, it would appear that you have adopted a somewhat global approach (i.e. where
there is no causal link between cause and effect) to this claim. While you identify the main disruption
events as being 1) the late or partial release of site areas, 2) the resequencing of work fronts and 3)
obstruction from other trades, the claim submission does not provide the causal link between each of
the alleged disruption events and the Contractor’s and/or the Employer’s culpability, and the causal link
between each of the alleged disruption events and the effects/ costs claimed. By simply attaching the
‘monthly reports’ is not enough to create the necessary link.
2.
Further, you have simply applied a planned vs actual assessment against three particular work
fronts 1) site, 2) engineering and 3) factory productivity. The shortfalls from this approach is that you
have not demonstrated that the planned productivities were both reasonable and achievable. This could
be done by finding a month where you achieved the outputs set out in the tender.
3.
With regards to Appendix D [Disruption Analysis], the Site Disruption cost schedule indicates the
monthly costs amounting to AED 21,536,466.00. However, the submission only includes a pdf form
which therefore makes it unclear how these monthly costs have been built up. Further, it is unclear how
the actual monthly productivity per m2 and/or the actual monthly cost has been obtained and verified the excel version needs to be provided along with sufficient narrative / records to support the adopted
methodology.
4.
Likewise, for the cost schedules provided for Engineering and Factory production; it is not clear
how these numbers have been generated and what formal records have been used to populate the
schedules.
5.
What is noticed from the schedule calculations, is that you are claiming for 100% culpable
disruption of your costs across multiple months, which indicates that you have no consideration of your
own ‘shortcomings’ during these particular months – Mosart need to consider and assess its own
culpable events and show the effects of them within this claim;
6.
Further, the Engineer staff costs include the same staff and periods which are being claimed
under their prolongation claims; Mosart must do a reconciliation of the claims / variations and remove
any duplication of costs.
7.
The Production costs include for offsite labour working within Mosart’s factory. Again, wages
for production staff appear within your prolongation claims for the same periods. Similar to staff costs,
all claims / variations must be reconciled and the cost duplication must be removed. Further, without
prejudice, Mosart need to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the production staff were not
working on other projects.
8.
‘Appendix C – Weekly Site Reports’ are missing; please clarify if the monthly reports provided
within sub folder titled ‘Site Disruption Cost’ are intended to represent the weekly reports.

9.
In Section 5, page 15, paragraph 4, Mosart states that it expects a fair determination within 41
days pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1.6 of the Sub-Contract Agreement. However, it is not clear where in
the submission you have evidenced the relevant claim notifications, which is a condition precedent to
reimbursement of additional Costs under Sub-Clause 271 of the Sub-Contract Agreement. Further
clarification and evidence is required on this?
10.
In summary, Mosart’s claim needs to take into account all the issues faced by you, providing a
clear path to entitlement through a cause and effect submission. To achieve this, it is therefore
important that the claim submission adequately demonstrates your case through detailed particulars,
which will include, but not limited to the following:
•
Statement of claim i.e. it is important that the claim contains a succinct statement of what the
Subcontractor is claiming;
•
The Event(s) i.e. identify the event(s) and the circumstances which gave raise to additional time
and/or costs;
•
Liability for the event i.e. the party(s) who is responsible for the event(s);
•
Contractual entitlement i.e. identifying the relevant clauses which gave raise to entitlement
against the known event;
•
Contractual compliance i.e. you must detail the relevant claim notices which are a condition
precedent;
•
Cause and effect i.e. identify the facts describing the cause and the effect, and demonstrate the
linkage between the two – this should include details of the planned works affected, referring to the
planned sequence, durations and methodology, the status of the works in relation to that planned at the
time of the event, and a description of the changes to that plan as a consequence of the event – the
Contractor would expect to see a recognised industry method of calculating loss of productivity;
•
Contemporary records (capable of being objectively verified) of the work (location, quantities
and times) impacted by each of the alleged disruption events, the name, designation and role of each
person and the relevant particulars of all other resources included in the calculation of the additional
Cost claimed.
•
Evidence of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
•
Substantiation i.e. extracted and documentary evidence (letters, method statements, RFI’s,
instructions, progress reports, photos, drawings, MOM etc).
Upon receipt of the above further clarifications and information, the Contractor will commence its
review and determination of the aforementioned Claim no.5 for Disruption to site installation,
engineering and factory production.”
Yours faithfully,
