Dear Mr Robert
With the pandemic continuing to spread around the World at an alarming rate, and numerous countries,
including Poland, imposing severe restrictions on flights, travel and social interaction amongst others,
the Subcontractor has been in continuous communication with the Contractor regarding the progress of
the works in order to appraise the Contractor as to how the Subcontractor’s Scope of Works is being
materially affected by the impact of COVID-19.
Consequently, the Subcontractor notes that the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected and
continues to affect the process of recruiting manpower, as well as, has affected the process of assigning
and allocating manpower to the Project. This is having a detrimental impact on our progress, resulting in
a significant drop in manpower levels, in particular skilled workers such as carpenters, masons, steel
fixers etc., which are essential for the successful completion of the works.
Apart from the abovementioned impeding difficulties being experienced that are currently hindering us
during this exceptional ongoing situation, we (the Subcontractor) regret to note that the Contractor has
been indirectly blocking/withholding and postponing the payments due to the Subcontractor by
repeatedly canceling many works in protocols issued by the Subcontractor.
The Subcontractor, regrets to note that the reasons provided by the Contractor are allegedly related to
the total completion of each individual work. However, it is important to note that the Subcontractor's
works are in progress and therefore the Subcontractor’s completed works, are expected to be paid
respectively.
We hereby put on record the specific issues in question being that of the late payments and/or nonpayment of monies/dues to the Subcontractor by the Contractor culminating to EUR……………. In
addition, we further wish to place on record that the Contractor failed to provide any valid
substantiation as to the non-payment of the abovementioned culminated amount.
Needless to say however, we are extremely disappointed with not only your lack of understating and
your failure to comply with your contractual obligations to proceed with the payments due to the
Subcontractor, but also with your failure to comprehend the urgency of the matter, as well as, your
failure to acknowledge the gravity of the situation.
It is the Contractor’s contractual obligation under the Subcontract Agreement and again it has become
abundantly clear that our formal requests to the Contractor to release our payments are repeatedly
ignored. Therefore, we urge you to collaborate and support the Subcontractor for the benefit of the
progress of the project.
As a consequence of the above, and the significant amounts withheld by the Contractor, the
Subcontractor has reached its financial limits. The issue is compounded further in that of your lack of
support and the unreasonable fines imposed upon the Subcontractor, which have been discussed in
previous letters, correspondences, emails and verbal communications.
As a result of your actions, the Subcontractor is on the verge of a financial collapse which has evidently
and consequently affected our works resulting to a significant decrease in manpower on site.
Therefore, this is to officially inform you that the Subcontractor does not possess the economic capacity
anymore, to continue financing the Project. Specifically, the lack of funds prevents the Subcontractor to
continue issuing the payments for the following:
•
Manpower on site
•
Staff on site
•
Facilities on site
•
Insurances and taxes
•
Rental machines and power tools

In light of the foregoing, we urgently urge you to proceed with the release of our payments due, without
further delays.
In conclusion, despite the Subcontractor’s willingness to complete the project while being under the
pressure of the circumstances mentioned above, the Subcontractor does not have enough funds to
proceed working on site beyond next week.
Yours faithfully,
