
Subject: Fibrex Claim - Removal of GRC Panels due to Incorrect Surveys to Fins

Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter referenced in (12) above regarding the aforesaid subject.
However the
correct subject should have been "Notification of Fibrex Claim- Removal of GRC Panels due to AI
Ghurair's
Incorrect Surveys to Fins" not "Non-Conformance Installation of Frameless Glass Screens, Glass Fins and
Associated Work".
Please note that JV letter referenced in (7) was issued based on a construction meeting in which both
AGCA
and FIBREX agreed to do modifications in their works. To date you have failed to provide a
response/reply to
the meeting notes provided via email.
In letter referenced (8), you replied to Fibrex' initial claim with a statement; 'We are currently preparing
our
detailed response to this subject and will notify you in due course'. To date, you have failed to provide
such
detailed response.
In letter referenced (10), even though you are trying to provide a reply to the Engineer's letter provided
you
with letter referenced (4), your reply is very generic and not addressing the non-conformance issues
listed. A
more detailed response is still expected from you.
You are reminded to be conversant with Clause of the Conditions of the Subcontract • 8.1.4 The
Subcontractor shall not be excused from performing its duties and obligations under the
Subcontract and its liability for any act, omission, breach, negligence or other default shall not be
waived, negated or diminished in any way by any failure an the part of the Contractor or any of the
persons referred to in this clause 8.1 to carry out and complete any of the tasks referred to in clause
8.1 either properly or at all or as a consequence of any failure to discourage, withhold this approval
of/or consent to or object to whatever may be proposed or done by the Subcontractor .
Lastly, we put it on record that it is taking two (2) or more months to reply to our letters and confusing
different subjects which is not acceptable. Most of these raised issues are critically important for the
delivery
of the project.
You are again reminded that until this date no explanation has been provided by yourselves regarding
your
defense I counter claim on this issue and we will no longer accept your simplistic letter replies.
Therefore this
letter serves as a further notice that we will be recovering the costs as per Fibrex Claim starting from the
latest
Payment Certificate from the date of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
