Subject:

Dear Sir,

Re: Request for Engineer's Instruction [RFEI/0401/0704]
New Doors Introduced at Pier 1 in Room 1644 & Pier 4 in Room 1722

We are in receipt of your letter referenced (2) above, wherein you rejected our letter referenced (1)
requesting you to issue an Engineer’s Instruction, regarding the new doors introduced via
RFI/0401/15691 reply dated 5th March 2018, at Pier 1 in Room 1644 & Pier 4 in Room 1722.
Please note that we refute the content of your letter referenced (2) and inform you that the 2 nr door
openings were never included on the IFC Door Schedule. Further to this, a symbol for a door on a
drawing does not determine the size, type, hardware set, or security type required for proper pricing
and construction, which could also simply be an access panel. Furthermore, the RFI response includes a
snippet of a Door Schedule (revision 32) that has never been issued to us formally or by any other
means.
Even though, we were able to utilize some spare doors and frames, we still have hardware and security
monitoring (DPS) that was added in the RFI response. This is a design change and an Engineer’s
Instruction along with updated IFC drawings are required not only for us to build, but also for us to
request WIR’s and allow for Testing and Commissioning. Testing and Commissioning cannot be
completed without approved WIR’s. WIR’s cannot be approved without an instruction and correct IFC
documents. Therefore, these changes constitute a Variation under the Contract and require an
Engineer’s Instruction.
Additionally, you are kindly reminded that e-notice “SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26, E-Notice No. – E0007 –
Discrepancies between Door Schedule Rev 31, SACS, Data and Power Provisions” and other
correspondence have been submitted previously, informing you about the aforementioned door issues.
Your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction is required, failing which the works are
likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
We reserve our rights under the Contract pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 (Contractor’s Claims) to an
extension of the Time for Completion and additional Costs arising from the above described event.
Yours faithfully,
