Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0250
Impact of UAE Government Edicts in relation to COVID-19 (Coronavirus)
Extended Disinfection Programme and Travel Restrictions and the Continued Delaying and
Disruptive Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the Project
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letters to the Employer ref: (1) and (2) in which we sought guidance on the action to be
taken in light of the rapidly evolving situation regarding the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic, as well as
refer to our letter (ref: 3) notifying you of the ramifications of the same on the Project following the UAE
Government edicts that has so far been issued on the matter; and write as follows:
Since letter ref: (3) was issued, the UAE Authorities have issued a number of additional announcements
relating to the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic. These include without limitation the following:
•
The announcement made by the Emirates News Agency (WAM) on 25 March 2020, of a National
Disinfection Programme that began at 8pm on 26 March 2020 and ended at 6am on 29 March 2002;

•
The subsequent announcement made on 4 April 2020 by Dubai’s Supreme Committee of Crisis
and Disaster Management, extending the sterilisation programme to 24 hours a day and the intensified
restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles. These measures came into effect at 8pm on
Saturday 4 April 2020 for a period of two weeks; albeit such measures are subject to renewal; and
•
The introduction of a permit system late on the evening of Sunday 5 April 2020 by the Dubai
Police associated with the restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles, which was initially
aimed at persons working in ‘vital sectors’ but the permits are now required for ‘essential purposes’
only.
A combination of the impacts arising in consequence of the initial UAE Government edicts and the
additional guidelines cited above associated with the extended disinfection programme and, travel
restrictions, and the developing situation regarding the COVID-19 (Coronavirus) pandemic generally, is
continuing to have a detrimental impact on our progress and that of our subcontractors and suppliers. It
is for this reason that we write to you in order to provide a further update to our letter ref: (3) and at
Annex A hereto have particularised the content of recent letters we have received from some of our
principle subcontractor (i.e. SITA, PCE JV, BAUER and ANEL) notifying us as to how events are continuing
to impact their performance and progress. Resultantly this continues to impact the Project as a whole.
Accordingly, we notify you pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment
No. 8 (‘SAA8’) that the various events and circumstances described in letters ref: (1) to (4) and detailed
above, will invariably delay and disrupt the Works and critically delay the Time for Completion.
ANNEX A
Further Interim Particulars: Impact of UAE Authorities’ Announcements (COVID-19)
The following provides an overview of some further feedback from some of our subcontractors of the
extent to which matters associated with COVID-19 is affecting their progress and impacting the Works.
Impact on Airport Operational Systems (SITA)
The following are extracts taken from SITA letter dated 31 March 2020 (ref: MTB-SITA-TCAJV-AOS-L1380) entitled ‘COVID 19 Impact for SITA Performance team availability’, which states inter alia:
‘… due to the current Corona Virus outbreak and resulting measures necessitated by the statutory
bodies in order to control the spread of the infection, the progress of Phase 2 of the AOS Performance
Testing is being adversely affected and disrupted.’
‘The SITA PSE (Engineering) team was scheduled to arrive at MTB on 22nd March to initiate the Phase 2
PT (Performance Test) work however, their visas were cancelled at the last minute with no information
on the resumption of visa issuing process.’
Additionally, SITA further notified us of the following:
‘In order to mitigate .. delays and progress the work … SITA has requested remote access for the PSE
(Engineering) team to the relevant Load Generator VMs and Servers.’
Note that SITA is yet to receive the requested Load Generator VMs (Virtual Machines), that were
requested on the 17th March 2020. Deadline for these VM provision was 24th March which is overdue
and is already on critical path (meaning the delay is directly delaying the testing schedule). Additionally,
ADAC/CMA/CxA are yet to finalize the scope of the Phase 2 PT, that should have been froze by now. As
per the plan the documents should have been approved by 27th March 2020.
For the … Internal SITA Testing on the MTB environment- SITA will need the team to be onsite. This is
not possible to manage remotely considering the complexity of the tasks and co-ordination required.
These activities are planned to start from 3rd week of April. If the current situation revolving around the
travelling bans and visa issuance continues till the 09th April, the project plan stands to be impacted
adversely.
Impact on Mechanical Works (PCE JV)
PCE JV’s letter dated 31 March 2020 (ref: MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/05871) notifies us that:

‘[PCE JV] anticipates that the required adjustments [requirements for sanitization and social distancing]
will lead to reduced productivity and delays. This is a direct result of the requirement for work practices
to have due regard to health and safety and the government regulations for the protection of all
personnel who continue to work on site.’
Impact on Subsidence Remediation (BAUER)
BAUER’s letter dated 23 March 2020 (ref: AUH/20/AUH-1232/404/JG/mrr) is titled ‘COVID-19 - General
Disruption to Construction Operation’ and notifies us of the follwing:
‘… at this stage, various government departments and ministries (e.g. The Ministry of Health Prevention
and, the Ministry of Interior) have issued a series of directives and protocols to be adopted … in order
stem the potential spread of the disease …’.
‘[These] …. include the restriction of traffic movement and transportation hours, limitations on public
services and guidelines on self-isolation as well as quarantine requirements to be implemented to
prevent the potential spread of the disease.’
‘…, while we have been taking measures to mitigate any harmful impacts of the same on the progress of
the Works, we are starting to feel the detrimental impact …’
Impact on Electrical Installations (ANEL)
We have received several letters from ANEL. These include without limitation two similar letters both
dated 2 April 2020 (ref: MTB-ANEL-YCA-L-9414 and MTB-ANEL-YCA-L-9420), both of which advise of two
personnel in particular who are prevented from working due to “recent pandemic related issues”.
‘… subcontractors' personnel will not be able to work under these circumstances. His assigned Lighting
Control System Commissioning activity will be adversely affected.’
Yours faithfully,
