Subject: Inconsistent Engineer's Review Comments Face Recognition (FR) System Low Level Design
Submittal
Dear Sir,
With reference to Engineer's action code 3 'Revise and Resubmit' in respect of 'Low Level Design
Document {LLD) - Face Recognition System (FR)', please be advise that comments forming the basis of
this action are not justified and contrary to the design and configuration of the FR System as set out in
Engineer's Instruction 294 ref. {2) above.
Moreover, the Engineer ought to be aware that the submitted LLD for FR System is consistent with the
design deviations expressly agreed with the Employer and recorded in Engineer's instruction ref. (2)
above.
A copy of the Employer approved design deviations as instructed in El-294 inclusive of Section 6 of
ATLAS Letter AST/TCAJV/TV/TD/0031 dated 4 February 2015 regarding 'Response to Technical
Compliance' is attached for your reference. With specific reference to Specification Sec. 272050
paragraph 2.11.B 'Computer and Server Equipment' the Employer agreed the following deviations:
"For point related to specific hardware redundancy and location inside MCR's; onlv LPR & FR supplied
subsystem will be rock mounted servers in SCR's as per Manufacturer's solution and system architecture
requirements recommendations for system performance and accuracy aspects." (Added emphasis).
Moreover this concept of FR severs in the SCR has already been approved in the FR NICD and SCR
Cabinet Layout Shop drawings. However, contrary to the above provisions the Engineer's comments in
the FR LLD included without
limitation the following:
"Page 9 of 52. Jpsotek VIS108FR-R-POE also known as the "Face Recognition Data Processing Units (FR
DPU)", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software in the SCR." and "lpsotek VI SFRDB-RC servers,
also known as the "FR Database {FRO 8} servers", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software and
lpsotek V/Suite VA software in the SCR."
"Contractor to move all servers to MCR or Data Center, reflect this in the document and resubmit.
Contractor to add load distribution on MCR and Data Center for the servers. Contractor to ensure to
update related documents if this impact approved SCR/MCR shop drawings." (Added emphasis)
These comments will effectively change the agreed FR system design in respect of the placement and
connectivity of the FR OPUs & FR DB Servers. As a result Atlas has stopped all further progress of these
Works until the above contemplated changes are addressed in a reasonable and rational manner. For
clarity and avoidance of doubt, such changes would result in below mentioned abortive works and
various impacts as follows:
a) Re-Design of MCR/DC Internal cabling Infrastructure including related MEP and SCN works to
support the equipment in the new location
b) Update & Re-submit all the approved Shop Drawings and NICD Document.
c) Procure; Install & Commission additional support infrastructure equipment
d) The following activities as per Program rev 10.2 will be delayed( not limited to. ):
Therefore, the Engineer is requested to urgently re-consider its comments forthwith and/or to further
elaborate upon the basis of the requested changes. Moreover, the above referenced Engineer actions
constitute a Variation which are not in the form of, or have been previously instructed in writing. To the
extent the above changes are required, you are requested pursuant to clause 20.1.4 (b) please issue
revised Drawings and/or Specification and an Engineer's Variation Order pursuant to clause 11.3.3 and
20.1.1 (a), respectively.

We reserve our rights to all additional costs and delays caused by the Engineer's disruptive comments.
Yours faithfully,
