
Dear Sir,

This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1for the Contractor to submit a quotation both to timing and
price for the Variation proposed by the Engineer.

The Variation as proposed:

Optimization of the Station entrances as well as consideration whether a shelter shall be provided or not
and inclusive of retail and waiting areas in specific locations (see attachments). Final number of vertical
transportation elements shall be verified against the passenger demand figures by the D&B Contractor.

The detailed geometry of the entrance is not part of this proposal and shall be subject to the detailed
design by the Contractor, taking into consideration all constraints, especially with regard to the Public
Right of Way and adjacent stakeholders.

The following is a non-exhaustive list of requirements which may be adjusted to achieve the above.
Furthermore the adjustments will be applied to all entrances that lead directly to underground stations
and subways:

The minimum length of run-off areas may be reduced to 4m for types other than A. Run-off
areas shall not overlap.

-

Where waiting areas are required (types BW and BWR), a minimum of 6 seats shall be provided.

For types BWR where retail areas are not specified in the attachment , a minimum area of 100
sqm shall be provided.

To optimize (reduce) the height of the shelters for all types apart from A, the following shall be
assumed: lift speed 1m/s, car clear height 2.3m, headroom height 1.4m, min clearance between lift
enclosure and roof 0.2m.

-

For types D and E stand alone lifts are acceptable.

Type E does not have a shelter and the entrance door to the AC controlled area shall be
provided underground. Adequate signage on the status of the station to be provided at surface level.
Dear Sir,

We refer to letter ref. M006-LBE-COM-LTR-01526 in which the Engineer's Assistant issued a Direction
under Sub-Clause 13.2.1 for the Contractor to submit a quotation for a variation proposed by the
Engineer.

The requested information was due for submission on 4 January 2016, but has not been received to
date. The Coratractor is required to submit the requested information within 7 (seven) days from the
receipt of this letter.

Yours faithfully,
