Subject: Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
It is with utter bewilderment and dismay that we have to write to ANEL to clarify your contractual
obligations in relation
to your adherence to contractor's instructions.
Clause 11.3.1 [Instructions of the Contractor] states "The Contractor may issue to the Subcontractor (at
any time)
instructions and additional or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the
execution of the
Subcontract Works and the remedying of any defects, all in accordance with the Subcontract. The
Subcontractor shall
comply with the instructions given by the Contractor on any matter related to the Subcontract.
Whenever practicable,
instructions shall be given in writing."
The above clause is hardly nodus and quite clearly affirms your contractual obligations to carry out
works instructed by
the contractor. It is therefore clear to see why such nonsensical responses as we have received in the
above
correspondence and a deluge of similar responses to instructions are becoming somewhat tiresome and
aggravating.
The refusal of instructions as evidenced in the above referenced letters on the grounds that a letter has
not been
responded to is both ludicrous and a breach of contract. Furthermore the letters which you refer to
within the above
correspondence have been responded to over 3 months ago (Appendix 1).
As ANEL have been instructed under the relevant subcontract clauses and are refusing to proceed with
the works stated
within, we consider this matter to be a Suspension of Works under the subcontract. ANEL have no
contractual basis
with which to suspend works and are therefore in Breach of Contract.
For the record, all costs incurred by us with regards to your illegitimate suspension will be levied against
your account in
strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) of the agreed Subcontract Agreement
between us.
The same will be subject to 15% Overhead & Profit I Administration Charges.
Yours faithfully,
