Subject:Engineer’s Notification of Delay to Milestone MS09B
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) above, which notifies us of our failure to achieve Milestone MS09B on 30
June 2019 as per SAA8.
We remind you that we have not achieved Milestone MS09B by this date due to successive delays and
breaches of Contract and multiple acts of prevention on the part of the Employer, the Employer’s
Personnel, the Consultants and Other Contractors, and therefore disagree entirely with the misguided
statement that ‘The Contractor remains responsible for all the delays that have occurred.’
We have notified you of delays that have been caused and continue to be caused to completion of our
Works due to multiple factors that are entirely outside of our control and maintain our position
regarding delays attributable to the actions of the Employer / Employer’s Personnel / Consultants /
Other Contractors as fully particularised in our consolidated Delay Analyses submitted to date; i.e.:
1.
TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 4 September
2018 and 1 May 2019’ submitted under cover of letter ref: (2); and
2.
TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 2 May 2019 and
1 August 2019’ submitted under cover of letter ref: (3).
We have more than demonstrated our entitlement to additional time beyond 30 June 2019, associated
with Milestone MS09B, together with other milestones
Daily we are preparing and submitting notices of delays, which are raised as a consequence of various
acts of prevention on the part of the Employer and / or the Employer’s Personnel and / or the
Consultants and / or Other Contractors, not to mention responding to the introduction by you and / or
the Design Consultant of further changes to the Works which are communicated to us in a dysfunctional
manner that is not in keeping with the Contract and / or the requirements of SAA8.
In view of the above, we reiterate that your purported reference to our Delay to Milestone MS09B is
entirely misguided and maintain that we are currently entitled to an extension to the Time for

Completion of Milestone MS09B of ‘at least’ 195 calendar days, in respect of TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8, in
respect of the events cited therein, revising the Completion of MS09B to 11 January 2020.
We confirm that we are currently preparing our TIA No. 3 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay
Analysis for Events between 2 August 2019 and 1 November 2019’ which will be issued to you in due
course; but given that the effects of many earlier notified events have a continuing effect on the Works
plus the effects of the additional notified events cited therein are impacting our progress also, then this
will invariably impact the Time for Completion of Milestones MS09B and MS09C further still.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing our
obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, but will not
be held responsible for such factors as those outlined above for which we are not culpable.
Yours faithfully,
