Subject:Delay Notification – Slow Progress to As-Built Submission
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter ref: (1) replying to our letter ref: (2).
We note your refutation of the contents of our letter ref: (2). However, we draw attention to the fact
that our letter ref: (1) cited events that were subject to E-Notices that were raised between 11
November 2018 and 4 June 2019; with the latter i.e. our letter dated 4 June 2019 being based on the
status of As-Built Submittals as at 23 May 2019. However, rather than address matters on a like for like
basis, you have now sought to record the status of As-Built Drawings as at 24 June 2019 – so of course
there will be an immediate disparity between us as to the number of overdue responses. The status of
overdue As-Built Drawings is constantly changing on a daily basis, so it is to be expected that the actual
status of overdue As-Built Drawings change. However, the implications drawn from your letter is that
the information that we record at any one point in time is grossly incorrect.
For example, the e-mail you refer to that was issued by us on 24 June 2019, was in fact based on a cutoff date of 20 June 2019 and in our view recorded the status of overdue As-Built Drawings at that date
(i.e. 20 June 2019), yet you assert “we do not have 372 drawings overdue … [and] there are no drawings
overdue more than 100 days”; the inference is that you are now basing your observation on the status
on 24 June 2019 and not the cut-off date cited by us, i.e. 20 June 2019.
To illustrate the ever changing status of As-Built Drawings, we have recently issued you with Delay
Notice No. 0062 (letter ref: 3), which coincidentally records the status of overdue As-Built Drawings as at
24 June 2019. The attachments to this letter demonstrate that as at 24 June 2019 there were a total
479 As-Built Drawings that were overdue. However, if you elect to momentarily ‘ignore’ any drawings
that are overdue by 1-2 days then the amount of overdue responses drop to 383 nos. This does not
however, detract from the fact that you failed to review the As-Built Drawings subject to letter ref: (3)
within the turn-around times expressly stated in the Contract for periods of between 1 and 87 calendar
days [albeit in one instance, the response to one submittal is actually overdue by 117 calendar days];
despite your allegations that you were somehow “interrupted” from doing so.
In view of the above information we stand by our comment that you now seek to rebuke: “We continue
to submit significant quantities of As-Built Drawings for your review for multiple disciplines yet you
consistently fail to honour your obligations under the Contract to review and respond within the turnaround times stipulated at Article 3.1 of Specification Section 013300”. This remains a fact.
Therefore it appears that the quantities of As-Built Drawings that failed to be reviewed by you within the
turn-around times stated in the Contract actually increased from 372 or 479 in a four day period from 20
to 24 June 2019 and therefore unequivocally represent significant quantities of Drawings.
Under the circumstances your statement where you allege that “the Engineer has managed to avoid any
significant delay in the review and return of the As-Built submittals …” is unfounded.
As regards your various comments about the disparity between planned and actual progress of our AsBuilt Drawings submittals, not only is our planned programme being affected by the matters set out
above, but there are other contributory factors that continue to affect us; particularly in relation to our
ability to obtain ADCD Status Code 1 approval. Firstly many of our As-Built Drawing submittals are being
responded to containing unreasonable Status Code 2 and 3 comments. We have written to you
variously over recent months on this very issue, including without limitation, our letter ref: (4), which
amongst other things highlights the fact that our As-Built Drawing are being unreasonably rejected due
to alleged issues relating to the ‘backgrounds’; for which we are not culpable nor liable.

Secondly, we draw your attention to the fact that your on-going failure to respond to WIRs promptly is
also exacerbating delays to the planned progress of our submittals further still. Simply put, absent a
WIR response, how then can we be expected to complete our As-Built Drawings [and as planned]?
So the fact remains, rather than assist us by adopting a pragmatic approach to closing out the backlog of
As-Built Drawings and approving them, your various acts or prevention are undeniably delaying us.
Once again we reiterate our sincere request that you refrain from sending delay notifications on this
matter but instead work with us to address not only the backlog of As-Built Drawings which remain in
your possession, but also to look to assist us, rather than hinder us, achieving Status Code 1 approval.
Yours faithfully,
