Dear Sir,
We refer to Contractor 's letter referenced M006-GDB-COM-L TA-01498 wherein the Contractor
requested the Employer's written agreement for its proposed interpretation of the Contract, in

reference to the notif ication procedure in case of an Engineer's Instruction which the Contractor
believes constitute a Variation.

In reference to the subject matter, if the Contractor "believes that an instruction from the Engineer
constitutes a Variation or may create an Entitlement ", within the provided mandatory time-frame of 14
days of the date of instruction, the Contractor should notify its entitlement in accordance with SubClause
3.3.3. "If the Contractor fails to notify the Engineer within 14 days of the date of instruction. then the
Contractor shall have no Entitlement regarding the instruction, while stilt being obliged to carry out,
implement or comply with the instruction".

Further, if the Contractor considers himself to be entitled to an extension of the Time for Completion,
the Contractor should notify its entitlement pursuant to Sub-Clause 8.4.2, again within a mandatory
time- frame of 14 days "after the Contractor knew or should have known of the facts or basis of such
entitlement". Furthermore, if the Contractor "fails to so notify the Engineer. the Time for Completion
shall not be extended, no adjustment to the Contract Price shall be made, and the Contractor shall have
no entitlement''.

Should the Contractor also consider himself to entitlement under Sub-Clause 20.1, the Contractor shall
give such notice as soon as practicable and not later than 14 days after the Contractor become aware or
should have become aware of the event or circumstance giving rise to the Claim.
Again, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.3, if the Contractor fails to so notify the Engineer, "the Time for
Completion shall not be extended, the Contractor shall not be entitled to additional payment and the
Employer shall be discharged from a/I liability in connection with the claim".

Furthermore, it is important to note that compliance with the notice provisions is intended to be a
condition precedent to recovery of time and/or money, thus the Contractor should treat the Sub-Clause
20.1 in this way.

We conclude that, if the Contractor considers that a variation has the potential to become a claim, then
a "Claim Notice" is required to be submitted in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1, irrespective of the fact
that such notice may be issued at the same time as a "Variation notice" andtor an "extension of Time
notice". We reiterate that after receiving an Engineer's Instruction that the Contractor considers to be a
variation, the Contractor has a reasonable period of time to assess the 1mphcat1ons of said variation,
thus becoming aware of the contractual approach to be followed
Yours faithfully,
