Subject: Notice of Claim for RFI/0401/12251: Fire Rated Ceiling at Piers ll.O
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's response to RFI reference {1) above, please be advised that t he
information, comments, clarifications and/or instructions (the Instruction) contained therein, constitute
an instruction of a Variation.
The changes to the fire rated ceiling and the lighting layouts is a Variation to the Works. The changes to
the fire rated ceilings at Piers 1 to 4 at Ll.O have been initiated by the Engineer's responses to RFis
reference {6) and (7) above.
For this reason, the Contractor considers that the Engineer has issued an instruction constituting a
Variation, which is not in the form of, or which has not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by
way
of a formal Variation Order.
The Contractor has requested, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.4.(b) of the Conditions of Contract, the
Engineer to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised
Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a), via its letters reference {2)
to
{5) above. However, the Engineer has, as of the date of this letter, failed to provide the necessary
written
confirmation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification. Moreover,
the
Engineer has insisted, via its response to RFI reference {1), that the Contractor complies with the
Instruction with no additional cost and/or schedule impact, notwithstanding the Contractor's contention
that the Instruction constitutes a Variation.
The Engineer's insistence that the Contractor complies with the Instruction amid its refusal to issue a
formal Variation Order constitutes a breach of Sub-Clauses 11.1.1 [Engineer's Duties and Authority] and
20.1 [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract. Notwithstanding, unless and until the Contractor
receives an instruction from the Engineer otherwise, the Contractor will proceed to implement the
additional and/or varied works required by the Instruction. Nonetheless, the Contractor is only doing so
under duress and maintains all of its rights with respect to this Variation, whether existing under the
Contract or otherwise.
Subject: Notice of Delay – Delivery and Installation of Bollards at BAS68 at level 00
Dear Sir,
As per the attached emails referenced in both (2) and (3) above, we hereby put on record our concerns
over your failure to deliver all required materials for LBAS68 at level 00 by mid May 2018, which has also

resulted in the delay of installation. This is mainly due to the shortage of resources, poor planning and
inadequate coordination which is failure of your Subcontract obligations.
In light of the above, you are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract
Clause 16.6.1 which provides that:
•
“If the Subcontractor fails to comply with the approved Subcontract Programme, the
Subcontractor shall without limitation indemnify and hold the Contractor harmless against and from the
costs, losses and expenses (...) incurred by the Contractor in connection with the Subcontractor’s delays
("Contractor Delay Costs"). Contractor Delay Costs incurred by the Contractor shall be quantified by the
Contractor at the time of such losses and claimed under clause 10.3 (Subcontractor's Claims). These
costs and losses shall be recoverable by the Contractor against the Subcontractor as compensation for
the losses suffered by the Contractor as a result of the Subcontractor's delay or non-compliance with the
approved Subcontract Programme and irrespective of whether or not the Subcontractor's delay or noncompliance results in the Contractor incurring liability for delay damages to the Employer under the
Contract."
Therefore you are hereby instructed to implement immediate mitigating measures within 7 days of
receipt of this letter. Failure to do so will result in us appointing a third party to execute the aforesaid
works on your behalf and back charge you in accordance with the Conditions of the Subcontract.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and will be recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
Yours faithfully,
