Subject RE: Rejection of Notice of Claim- Subcontractor's Failure to Adhere to Cl-257 MEP Opening on
GRC Scallop (ILS Bridge Zone 4)
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor rejects the notice of
claim issued by the Contractor in respect of the Subcontractor's failure to adhere to the Contractor's
Instruction Cl/0257 for the provision of an MEP opening in the GRC scallop in ILS Bridge Zone 4 (2). For
the
record:

In May 2017, the Contractor requested the Subcontractor to execute an opening in the GRC
scallop in Zone 4; the size and coordinates for this opening were provided to the Subcontractor.
In June 2017, the Subcontractor advised that a new panel had to be produced in order to carry
out an opening with these coordinates.
In July 2017, the Contractor issued an instruction (CI/0257) to the Subcontractor to proceed with
all necessary works required to finally obtain an opening in the GRC with the same size and in the
same location indicated previously. For ease of reference, the coordinates for the opening were
again included in the Contractor's instruction.
On 19 April 2018, the Subcontractor was notified that the works had not been carried out in
accordance with. the issued instruction. as the opening did not comply with the instructed
coordinates. The Subcontractor was further informed that its failure would impact the MEP
subcontractor (PCEJV) who was already working in the area.
On 01 May 2018, the Subcontractor was formally notified that PCEJV was incurring some abortive
I relocation works due to the Subcontractor's failure to adhere to the content of Cl/0257 and
execute the opening in the required location. Consequently, the Contractor notified the
Subcontractor that any additional costs would be recovered from its account, should PCEJV decide
to claim compensation vis-a-vis these abortive I relocation works. To be clear, it is because of the
Subcontractor failing to follow the Contractor's instructions that PCEJV
undertook abortive I relocation works. Hence, the Contractor does not concur with the Subcontractor's
statement that the notice issue via letter (2) is wrongful.
Moreover, the Contractor is of the opinion that the Subcontractor's rejection lacks any contractual basis.
Please be reminded that the submission of a notice only serves the purpose of informing the
Subcontractor of an event which may potentially result in a third party submitting a claim and in the
subsequent deduction of moneys due to the Subcontractor. It is a contractual obligation of the
Contractor
to notify the Subcontractor as soon as possible and, for the sake of clarity, the submission of such a
notice
cannot be rejected as it is not issued for the Subcontractor's approval.
Yours faithfully,
