Subject: Recovery of Overhead, Profit and Attendance due to the Omission of
Works to Give to Other Contractors - Request for a Determination~ Pursuant to
Clause 11.4
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your rejection of our claims for damages resulting from the Employer's breach
of
the Contract through the Engineer's omission of works for the purposes of awarding that work to other
contractors (references 1, 2, 3, 4, 9 and 10).
The Employer has breached the Contract through:

1. The omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for Items 4/P/1/M, N, 0 & P, involving Stakeholder
and Retail Spaces (reference 6).
2. The omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for Items 4/P/3/A, B, C & D, involving Back of house
furniture (reference 9)
3. The omission of the provisional sum for the hotel fit out (reference 5); and
4. The omission of the beam seating (reference 4).
In all four cases, the work is required for a fully functional airport. Therefore, in all three cases, the
Engineer has omitted these works in order to give the same, or substantially similar, work to another
contractor.
The Engineer has rejected each of the Contractor's claims for lost overhead and profit resulting from the
Employer's breaches. Therefore, the Contractor respectfully requests the Engineer to issue a
determination on this matter within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
Given the protracted correspondence on this issue, the Contractor will restate its position as follows; to
amalgamate everything in a single document.
Basis of the Claim under the Contract:
The original terms of the Contract were included within the request for tender. As the Employer has
recently summarised: "The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated by the Employer
and the Contractor.1
" While the parties did negotiate some terms of the Contract, the operative
provisions at issue were unchanged during the negotiations.
The Contract defined a scope of work which the Contractor was to perform for a lump sum price. The
Contract requires that the Contractor complete that full scope of the Works/ and the Employer agreed
to
compensate the Contractor to complete the Works.3 Thus, the Contractor not only has the obligation,
but also the right, to complete the Works and receive the Contract Price.
As is typical in construction contracts, the Contract contemplates that the Employer might want to omit
certain items from the Project. To that end, Clause 1.1 [Definitions] defines a "Variation" to include "a)
the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof". Further, Clause 11.3.1
[Instructions of the Engineer] empowers the Engineer to issue the Contractor "instructions and
additional
or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the execution of the Works ... all in
accordance with the Contract" and Clause 20.1.1 [Right to Vary] authorises the Engineer to instruct
Variations.
This language cannot reasonably be read to permit the Employer to omit and/or de-scope work in order
to award that work to another contractor. Rather, consistent with the contractual arrangement, the
Engineer may only instruct the genuine omission and/or de-scoping of items. If the Engineer's rights
were unfettered, the Employer could take advantage of cost reductions by awarding work to other
contractors while leaving the Contractor saddled with items of work for which there were cost
escalations.
The parties recognised as much. For example, Clause 22.2.4 [Termination by Employer for Contractor
Default] states that where the Employer de-scopes the Contractor's work for cause, the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the
Contractor shall have not claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads
which it would have earned but for such omission. [ ... ]. The Employer's right to
omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to the
Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to
clause 20.1 (Right to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of
such omitted work to another contractor any time.

Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the unfettered
right
to omit works to give to other contractors. Indeed, if the Employer could omit works for whatever
reason,
Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be entirely redundant with the
authority
conferred under Clause 20.1.1; it would also permit the Engineer to avoid the Contractor's procedural
protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission.
This plain reading of the Contract is reinforced by Articles 246 and 265 of the UAE Civil Code. Article 246
provides:
(1) The contract must be performed in accordance with its contents, and in a
manner consistent with the requirements of good faith.
(2) The contract shall not be restricted to an obligation upon the contracting party
to do which is [expressly] contained in it, but shall also embrace that which is
appurtenant to it by virtue of law, custom, and the nature of the disposition.
Further, Article 265 provides that:
[l]f there is scope for interpretation of the contract, an enquiry shall be made into
mutual intentions of the parties without stopping at the literal meaning of the
words, and guidance may be sought in so doing from the nature of the
transaction, and the trust and confidence which should exist between the parties
in accordance with the custom current in dealing
In this case, the Engineer's instruction to omit works to give to others is inconsistent with the
contractual
relationship: it unjustly deprives the Contractor the right to earn a profit on the full scope of its work.
Also, as will be explained below, it is industry practice to read such clauses as prohibiting the Engineer
from omitting works to give to other contractors
Response to Engineer's Arguments
The Engineer claims that three provisions of the Contract permit it to omit work for any purpose
whatsoever, including to award to other contractors:
a) The definition of Variation in Clause 1.1;
b) The definition of "Defined Provisional Sum" found in Clause 1.1; and
c) The BOQ preambles.
None of these provisions support the Engineer's position.
a) The definition of "Variation" only permits genuine omissions:
The Engineer asserts that because the definition of "Variation" includes the word "omission" , the
Employer is free to omit works for whatever reason without consequence. (References 1, 2, 3, 4, 9 and
10} This is not what the word "omission" means.
Every single commentary, and every court that has interpreted such language, has come to the
conclusion that "a provision giving the owner or his [engineer] a power to make omissions only
contemplates genuine omissions, that is, works which it is intended should not be carried out at all".4
For example, AI Sanhouri, states in his commentary:
4 Hudson,
The Employer must [ ... ] not omit the works from the contractor after having
promised him to undertake such works for a lawful cause. [This is because the
Employer] is not allowed to unilaterally go back on his consent with respect to the
contract except within the limits and pursuant to the conditions stipulated by
law.5
In Carr v JA Berriman Pty Ltd, the contract contained a clause saying that: "The Architect may in his

absolute discretion, and from to time, issue .... written instructions or written directions ... in regard to
the ... omission ... of any work."'6 In holding that it was a breach of contract for the architect to invoke
this clause to omit works to give to other contractors, the High Court in Australia reasoned:7
The clause is a common and useful clause, the obvious purpose of which - so far
as it is relevant to the present case - is to enable the architect to direct additions
to, or substitutions in, or omissions from, the building as planned, which may turn
out, in his opinion, to be desirable in the course of the performance of the
contract. The words quoted from it would authorise the architect (doubtless
within certain limits, which were discussed in R v Peto (1826) 1 Y & J 37; 48 E.R.
577 to direct that particular items of work included in the plans and specifications
shall not be carried out. But they do not, in my opinion, authorise him to say that
particular items so included shall be carried out not by the builder within whom
the contract is made but by some other builder or contractor. The words used do
not, in their natural meaning, extend so far, and a power in the architect to
hand over at will any part of the contract to another contractor would be a most
unreasonable power, which very clear words would be required to confer.
(Emphasis added.)
Similarly, in Gallagher v. Hirsh,8 the contract provided that: "Should the [employer] at any time during
the progress of the said building request any alteration, deviation, additions or omissions from the said
contract he shall be at liberty to do so." In finding that the employer breached the contract in omitting
this work to award to another contractor, the Appellate Division in New York State held that:
The words are, 'additions or omissions from the said contract,' evidently meaning
additions to or omissions from the work to be done under said contract, which
clearly negatives the idea that they were intended to mean that the [employer]
should have the right to omit the work from the plaintiffs contract, in order to give
the contract to another to do the same thing. (Emphasis added.)
More recently, the High Court of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Court of First Instance
construed a variation provision that permitted the instruction of the "addition, omission or alteration
of work items required to complete the Project." Holding that "it would require clear language to
support a construction" that the employer was permitted to exclude works entirely that were required
to complete the project, the court found that the language was not sufficiently clear to permit the
employer to de-scope works for purposes of awarding that work to other contractors.9
While the Contractor appreciates that these authorities are not from UAE courts, the authorities are
persuasive because they interpreted the very English-language terms used in the Contract. Moreover,
they evidence the industry standard in construction contracts. This is a mega-project in which the
Employer solicited tenders from intern ational construction firms. Certainly, the Employer should have
industry. Such industry custom and practice is, as a matter of UAE law, directly relevant to the
interpretation of a contract.
b) The definition of "Defined Provisional Sum" only contemplates genuine omissions
With respect to the omissions of the provisional sum claims, the Engineer asserts that the definition of
"Defined Provisional Sum" permits the Employer to omit such items for purposes of instructing other
contractors. (Reference 1, 2, and 7 .) The Engineer relies upon the definition of "Defined Provisional
Sum", which is, "a sum included in the Contract Price ... for the execution of any part of the Works ...
which sum may be used, in whole or in part, to not at all, on the instructions of the Engineer."
Again, authorities are in agreement that this language does not permit the Engineer to omit Defined
Provisional Sums in order to award that work to other contractors. To the contrary:
Provisional sum work has been treated as definitive and not contingent, so that its
omission under a power to vary, if intended to have the work done by another

Contractor, has been held to be outside the power and in breach of contract
entitling the Contractor to damages.10
For example, in Hydro Holdings, the contract included a provisional sum for a nominated subcontractor
but the employer directly awarded that work to another contractor. In holding that the employer's
omission of provisional sum work to reallocate to another contractor constituted a breach of contract,
the Court held that, based on "common sense and business morality":
Under the terms of most contracts, an employer who exercises a power to omit
work must genuinely require the work not to be done at all, and cannot exercise
such a power with a view to having the work carried out by someone else.11
Similarly, in Amec Building Limited v. Cadmus Investments Co Limited, the employer omitted work
relating to a provisional sum and later awarded it to a third party. The court noted that the contract
provided the architect "the power ... in his sole discretion to withdraw any work from provisional sums
for whatever reason if he considers it in the best interests of the contract or the employer so to do."
Despite this, the court affirmed the award of lost profits for the omission of provisional sum work to
give to another contractor.12
While the Contractor appreciates that this Contract is governed by UAE law, these authorities: (a)
directly opine on the language used in the Contract; and (b) establish that there is an industry practice
and that practice is relevant to the interpretation of the Contract as a matter of UAE law.13
c) BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 is not relevant
The Engineer relies upon BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 which states that "[t]he Contractor shall not be
entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the value of any omitted works." (References 1, 2, 3.)
This reliance too is misplaced.
First, this clause is inapplicable because the Contractor is seeking damages for a breach of contract and
not for an omissions. As Emden's Commentary notes, "if an omission takes away work in order to have
it carried out by another contractor, it seems unlikely this will be a variation, but will be a breach of
contract."14 As such, this clause is not relevant and does not exculpate the Employer from paying the
Contractor what is due as a matter of law. Second, for the same reasons explained above, the words
"omission" within Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not
relevant.
Based upon the above, the Contractor cannot concur with the Engineer's position. Accordingly, the
Contractor requests that the Engineer render a determination within meaning of Clause 11.4.1 with the
impartialitl5 required by the Contract.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor is separately claiming for the costs of extra coordination, the
provision of materials to other contractors, and the delay and/or disruption to its work caused by the
other contractors.
Yours faithfully,
