Dear Sir,
We refer to the Rev. 11.2 Programme update for the month of May 2019 (2) and hereby record the
delays by the Contractor to FDB Form 4 submissions to ADDC, and energization in the Central
Processor and Pier 2 as follows:
1. In the Central Processor and Pier 2 the FOB Form 4 submissions to AOOC, and energization
planned up to May 2019 were not achieved.
2. The majority of FOB energization planned finish dates are delayed within the range of 8 to
131 days since the planned completion dates in the January 2019 update i.e. in four months.
3. The Contractor has re-sequenced the non-progressed FOB energization activities to eliminate
its effects in this updated Programme. As a result, commissioning activities are stacked
excessively in the Programme, without any justification of how resources on site will be either
increased or productivity improved. This is not acceptable.
Table 1 below demonstrates the activities in the Central Processor which have failed to achieve the
Rev 11.2 Programme dates and require immediate improvement.
Table 1: Progress of FOB Form 4 Submission and Energization in Central Processor as of 14 Jun 2019
We acknowledge the various efforts taken by the Contractor to improve the progress of FDBs
completion, however, it is evident that the Contractor and Subcontractor have not yet attained the
desired momentum in order to recover the shortfalls to date. The Contractor's failure to achieve the
planned progress to the FDB energization works will have an adverse effect on the completion of
testing and commissioning of various building systems and interface testing in the MTB. Also, the slow
progress in both ADDC Form 4 submission and subsequent energization still remains the dominant risk
to commence and/or complete the Cause and Effect testing in the MTB. These delays are attributed to
the wire joints rectification work, uncoordinated Testing and Commissioning schedule and shortage of
Contractor resources and are therefore the Contractor's own delays.
Further, we note that in the updated Programme (2) the Cause and Effect timeline has been revised
from the Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme, and according to this revised timeline, the Central Processor
Cause and Effect testing is now planned to commence on 23 June 2019. We reiterate that considering
the remaining duration and the extensive amount of commissioning works required to be completed,
it is also unlikely the revised target of Cause and Effect testing scheduled to complete on 30
September 2019 can be achieved unless appropriate and immediate mitigation measures are
implemented to expedite progress.
In light of the above, the Contractor is directed to take immediate mitigation measures and all
necessary actions to expedite the progress of ADDC Form 4 submission and energization activities in

the Central Processor and Pier 2 in order to recover the delays caused by the Contractor to date.
We hereby reserve the Employers' rights under Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of Contract for any
damage the Employer may incur as a result of the Contractor's slow progress.
Yours faithfully,
