Subject:Risk Committee Meeting dated 06 October 2019 – Engineer’s Minutes of Meeting
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your minutes of meeting (1) issued under your e-mail (2).
We do not accept these as minutes of the discussions that took place at the meeting as they are
selective in content and incomplete. Furthermore, we do not accept your attempt to enforce your
recordings as minutes on the basis that we have not signed them or detracted from them within 48
hours from date of issue of the draft version.
We have never agreed to respond within 48 hours.
We stress that there were 15 individuals present at the meeting, 4 of which were from TCAJV and it is
unfair and unrealistic to impose a 48 hours response period to the draft minutes. This is not in keeping
with collaborative understanding of SAA8 Clause 2.25, which is stated on page 1 of the minutes of
meeting. We therefore take this opportunity in recording the following facts:
With regards to Item 1 – We did not commit to submitted to you a resource loaded programme by 10
October 2019. We advised that we would submit the forecast required resources to support the
programme as a separate file as a supplement to the schedule update submission on 10 October 2019.
We are agreeable to an open book policy for the past and future projected completion costs. This point
was discussed several times during the meeting.
Item 2 – No comment.

Item 3 – No comment.
Item 4 – With regards to ORAT, our understanding is that Piers DLP will commence earlier than CP in
accordance with the latest schedule.
We will be compensated for the cost of the gap between Piers and CP. This will de detailed and
discussed with ADAC.
Item 5 – No comment.
Item 6 – With reference to Subsidence, you acknowledged that (via a drawing showing possible cavities
around the MTB) there are cavities which are to be treated under the MTB project, as opposed to the
MTA project. We previously informed you that one of the main reasons for the subsidence is the
presence of cavities, however this explanation was not previously accepted by you. This is now
acknowledged and accepted by you.
We did not agree to excavate the CHW pipe location. We stated that this work was under L&T (MTA
contractor) scope and any work associated with external works in pump room area, is outside of our
scope.
Items 7 – 13. No comments.
Considering the above information, which we feel reflects more accurately the discussions that took
place at the meeting on 06 October 2019, we kindly request that these be incorporated into the minutes
of meeting, which are subsequently reissued to all in attendance.
Yours faithfully,
