Dear Sir,

With reference to the Engineer's letter reference 3 and the subsequent Engineer's Assistant's letter
reference 2, the Contractor would like to confirm the following.

The Contractor hereby acknowledges receipt of the Engineer's Instruction to initiate a variation pursuant
to Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of the Main Contract. However, the Contractor refutes
the Engineer's assertion that this may be an omission of work under the Contract. It is noted that the
Engineer's Instruction amends the wording of Volume 6 - Employer's Requirements - Design
Specifications -Sub-Clause
10.5.1.2 d) [Cross-passageways] which shall now read, "Cross-passageways shall be provided in tunnel
sections where they are required at a maximum distance of 244m between each other. The distance
between a cross-passageway and an evacuation shaft, the station platform public area or a tunnel portal
shall not be more than 500m. "

The Contractor affirms that the optimisation of the cross-passageways alignment was always an option
for the Contractor pursuant to Volume 6 - Employer's Requirements - Design Spec ifications - Sub-Clause
10.5.1.2
e) [Cross-passageways] whereby , "the maximum distance may be increased, in special cases and subject
to approval by Civil Defence, by up to 500m in accordance with the European TS/ for railway tunnels
{TS/ SRT) if it can be demonstrated by engineering analysis that evacuation of the maximum train
capacity load (1200p} into the non-incident tunnel can be achieved under tenable conditions and that
the resulting risk for passengers would be acceptable and as low as reasonably practicable ...." These
provisions have not been amended.

Accordingly, the Engineer's request for the Contractor to provide an assessment of the adjustment to
the Contract Price and the Schedule of Payments has no contractual basis.

Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has duly requested the Lead Designer to inform about the
duration for the development of all necessary documents in accordance with the provisions of Volume 6
- Employer's Requirements - Design Specifications - Sub-Clause 10.5.1 .2 e) [Cross-passageways]. The
Lead Designer's
response was received under letter reference 1 (enclosed herewith for ease of reference), informing
that the requested documents can be produced within a period of no less than 5 months. However this
period does not account for the interfacing that will also be required with QCD after the analysis.

In light of the above, the Contractor hereby confirms that they will proceed immediately with the design
changes and the necessary construction in accordance with the Engineers Instruction to comply with
QCD waiver and the change to Volume 6 Section 10, Sub-Clause 10.5.1.2. (d). In parallel with this, the
Contractor will also carry out a detailed analysis to show if the evacuation can be achieved within
acceptable limits or not.

Yours faithfully,
