Subject: Notice of likely Delay No.2718
Dear Sir,
Mr. Ahmed Abbas, Construction Manager
AUH.06.10.0401
With reference to Structural calculation for the subject handrail reference no.S above, we would like to
bring to the Engineer's attention the fact that this calculation was given code-3 six times with
unreasonable comments. As confirmed in our previous letter reference no.7 above that our scope is
limited to the design of the connections and fixings only as per related project specification reference
no.1
above. However, we have prepared & submitted a detailed design based on the Engineer's requests.

Though, the Engineer kept giving this calculation code-3 for comments which were not under TCAJV
scope
of work.
To avoid further unnecessary delays, TCAJV will proceed as per IFC drawings & details (Reference nos.
2,3,
&4 above} noting that approved China State (CSC) shop drawing (reference no.9 above} for the same
handrail on Landside Bridges (MTL contract) is following the same IFC details with no change. Therefore,
we would like to follow the same, as we trust that the engineer has already reviewed and approved esc
shop drawings. And further, to maintain the same aesthetic affect for the DAS and the Landside
approach
roads. This will avoid any sudden change of the handrail profile between the two contracts that may
lead
to any visual difference to the building occupants.
On this basis, kindly note that we will re-submit our structural calculations (ref. no.S above) for
cancellation, and we will instead now submit our handrail shop drawings for approval.
If the Engineer is interested in the re-design of IFC handrails, please issue the necessary Engineer's
Instruction to proceed with the same. Otherwise, confirm the above.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4(b), the contractor is of the view that the
Engineer
has issued comments, clarification and I or instruction constituting a Variation which are not in the form
of or have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
We are unable to undertake changes pursuant to informally revised drawings or sketches constituting a
Variation without a formal Variation Order or a confirmation of same.
Please issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification as a Variation by means
of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising as a result of abortive
works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or the confirmations mandated by
Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4 and 20.3.1.
Failing to undertake the Engineer's duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the
Works
and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Complet ion and an increase to the
Contract Price.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to CoC 9.10.3 that we intend to claim for an extension of the
Time for Completion and the additional Cost implications.
Yours faithfully,
