Subject Milestones MS06A and MS06B
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) regarding the alleged completion of Milestones
MS06A and MS06B and we refute the content of the Contractor's letter in its entirety.
The culpability of the Contractor for their failure to achieve the above Milestones has been recorded
since December 2018 via correspondence (3) to (11) wherein the re levant reports and records have
been enclosed along with photographs of the respective rooms which clearly demonstrate the
Contractor's failure to achieve these Milestones on 31 December 2018 (MS06A) and 28 .February 2019
(MS06B). For the record, both Milestones remain unachieved until the date of this letter.
The definition and requirements of the above Milestones are clear and the contention of the
Contractor that only snags remain and there are sufficient work fronts is incorrect. According to the
definition of the Milestones, they are to be considered complete when all areas are inspected and
accepted by the Engineer in order to allow undisturbed and uninterrupted access for build-out/fit-out
by Other Contractors. Therefore, completion of the work is not a matter of opinion, but it is a matter
of fulfilling the contractual requirement.
As per 23 June 2019 the following remain outstanding:
• Room Completion Stage 1-528/538 rooms
The Contractor continues to misreport the completion status of the rooms, and despite notification
issued by the Engineer, when Zutec is the Project's acceptable and formal method for the recording of
completion. Due to the Contractor's inaction with respect to implementing corrective measures to
ensure the accuracy of their reporting, an NCR has been raised on this and which to date remains
open {NCR1040} .
The Contractor appears to attempt in correspondence {1} to convolute the issue by referring to
alleged Employer's delays in responding to RFis, review of As-Built Drawings etc. despite the
magnitude of Project records (see attached} which clearly shows that the Contractor is the only
culpable Party for all delays associated with their failure to achieve MS06A and MS06B. Furthermore,
and with reference to the slide attached to the Contractor's presentation which refers to the
Milestones as being "partially achieved", we advise that there is no Contract clause which defines the
"partial" completion of Milestones.
The Contractor by failing to achieve MS06A and MS06B has prevented and continues to prevent the
undisturbed and uninterrupted access of the Employer's Fit Out Contractors. To date, the Contractor
has submitted numerous re-entry NOCs in order to proceed to the rooms which were supposed to be
completed (see attached log). For the record, there are currently 127 rooms for which, the Contractor
has not submitted snagging. requests. Furthermore, there are 6,306 snag items pendingfor 411 rooms
for which the Contractor has submitted the relevant snagging requests (see attached).
Moreover, we advise that the Employer has not taken possession as alleged by the Contractor and the
Contractor's request for a Taking Over Certificate for these rooms does not align with the Contract
provisions and is therefore rejected. It is the Contractor's obligation to provide access to these areas

under MS06A, MS06B and also to coordinate with the Fit-Out Contractors {Section 01 31 15
Specifications) and Clause 12.11.1 (b) Conditions of Contract.
In light of the above, we reiterate that Milestones MS06A and MS06B remain unachieved and delay
damages pursuant to Clause 16.6 of the Conditions of Contract remain applicable. We hereby reserve
the Employer's rights under Clause 10.3 for any further delays to the Project.
Yours faithfully,
