
Subject:RE: Request / Application for Interim Extension of Time (Claim No. 3) with Prolongation Costs

Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your Interim Request / Application for Extension of Time (Claim No. 3)
submitted via letter reference (3) for TCAJV’s review and approval. The submission comprised 4Nr hard
copy Files, namely:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)

Narrative, Appendix 1, Appendix 2 and Appendix 4 (File 1);
Appendix 5 (File 2 and File 3); and
Appendix 3 (File 4).

In response to our subsequent requests, you have also provided the following additional
documentation:
(i)
A soft copy (698 Pages in pdf format) of the Claim; (Enclosure A)
(ii)
Clarification of how the amount claimed as Prolongation Cost (AED 89,076,792.44) is established
(Enclosure B); and
(iii)
A soft copy (Xcel file) named ‘ADIA – Prolongation Cost Breakdown R3’ to identify the source of
the Average Cost(s) per day used in your valuation (Enclosure C).
We have already notified you via email that the hard and soft copy files submitted are not the same and
that the amounts claimed for certain elements do not align with the supporting documents provided
(see Enclosure D). In addition, we hereby note that no supporting documents are provided for the
amounts included in the following components of the Claim (‘ADIA – Prolongation Cost Breakdown R3’),
under the heading(s):
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

‘Other’ (AED 32,341,479);
‘Labour Accommodation Cost’ (AED 3,907,524);
‘Manufacturing / Production Overheads’ (AED 33,350,933);
‘Design Subcontract’ (part);
‘Finance Cost’ (from November 2017); and
‘Factory Supervision & Support Staff’ (apart from January 2017 to October 2017).

Notwithstanding any other relevant provisions of the Subcontract, you are obliged, pursuant to SubClause 27.1.5 of the Conditions of Subcontract, to “send to the Contractor a fully detailed claim which
includes full supporting particulars of the … reimbursement of additional Cost and or adjustment to the
Subcontract Price claimed”. Suffice to say that the submission made by you does not meet the requisite
criteria.

For the avoidance of any doubt, this letter shall not be construed as a waiver of any of TCAJV’s rights
under the Subcontract in relation to the submitted claim and/or as TCAJV’s acceptance of any of the
items and/or amounts claimed, as Costs that may be included in the valuation of any additional payment
arising out of or in connection with any award of an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion.
Upon receipt of your fully detailed and supported claim, we shall respond to all aspects in accordance
with the Subcontract.
This is for your information and necessary action.

Yours faithfully,
