Subject:Amicable Settlement – Luminous Espresso Industry Café WLL Doha, Qatar
Dear Dimitri,
With reference to the subject matter and after our numerous correspondences and discussions, I (Mr.
Albert Leka) write to you (Mr. Dimitrios Prekas), to have an honest discussion in an effort to settle the
on-going matter in regards to the disputes that have arisen between us associated with Luminous
Espresso Industry Café WLL in Doha – Qatar.
Therefore, this letter has been prepared to provide the detailed chronology of events that have taken
place and continue to take place, and is an honest effort on my part to resolve this matter fairly and

reasonably. Hopefully, I genuinely hope that we can mutually and amicably agree and resolve all matters
concerning this issue, the soonest possible.
As you can see below, this letter is very detailed and it has been prepared with a good intention, after
taking into consideration all of which have taken place all these years and since you joined the business,
in regards to the management of Luminous Espresso Industry Café WLL in Doha.
Apart from stating the detailed chronology of events providing sufficient clarity as to what has taken
place, this letter concludes with a fair and reasonable suggestion on how this matter can be amicably
resolved between us and suggests a plan for moving forward.
In view of the foregoing and in accordance to the “Articles of Association Limited Liability Company”
(hereunder referred to as “the Agreement”) which has been concluded and signed between us (“the
Shareholders”) 5 September 2018, this letter is to be considered as notifying you that the period for
amicable settlement is at the end of the expiry of seven (7) days from the date of receipt of this letter.
Sincerely,
Annex A
Introduction
It is worth mentioning that since early March 2020 till the date of writing this letter (13 July 2020), I have
engaged with you in a series of discussions, correspondences and suggestions in an endeavor to resolve
the ongoing issues that the Luminous business is currently going through as a result of the impacts of
the Covid19 Pandemic, as well as attempting to guide you and the business, on the requirements for
supporting and maintaining all Luminous Coffee shops in Doha-Qatar, operational and at the requisite
level. In support of this, attached to this letter, are numerous email correspondences and other relevant
correspondences/enclosures, which substantiate the matters discussed herein.
I was genuinely hopeful that finally some progress would be made and awaited your further decision
and/or actions, however, I regret to note that to date no actions have been taken on your part; hence
the issuance of this letter, which elaborates, summarizes and also provides details on the chronology of
events, as follows.
Detailed Chronology of Events
The Luminous Espresso Industry Café was originally born as an idea for the first time at the end of the
year 2015 and officially opened in January 2016, with one shop located in the Um Ghuwailina Area at
the Ground Floor of Pearl Building (IBQ Main Branch) in Doha – Qatar. The ‘Article of Association” under
Documentation Number ‘50133’ for Luminous Café at IBQ was signed between the Shareholders on 17
November 2015 (the full Agreement is attached to Annex B hereto). The founders and the percentage of
the Two (2) founders /shareholders of Luminous Café located at the IBQ Main Branch had been
concluded in the manner shown in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1
It is worth noting that, on 24 December 2017, the “Luminous Café” located at IBQ changed its name to
“Le Petite Louis Café” (Annex B refers) and remains to date, under the ownership of Ms. Eiman Ali Gh A
Al-Tamimi and Mr. Albert Leka, as shown in Figure 1 above.
For the avoidance of doubt, it is noted that Ms. Eiman Ali Gh A Al Tamimi, is required by the law of the
State of Qatar, to hold a percentage of at least 51% of the business, as a Qatari National. In addition, it is
noteworthy that from the beginning to date, Ms. Eiman has been enormously helpful and has been
involved assisting Luminous business, in all procedures associated with Government permits, etc. and all
other necessary actions required for the business.
It is noted that prior and after the signature of the abovementioned Agreement, Ms. Eiman, myself, Mr.
Athanasios Bontantiotis (Operational Manager) and Mr. Edmond Cena (Branch Manager), which were
employees of Luminous café managing the business, were in a discussion so that they would eventually

buy a percentage of shares to become shareholders of the Luminous Espresso Industry Café, subject to
their performance in managing Luminous café at IBQ.
The intention and the aspiration, from the beginning, when the idea of Luminous Café was born in 2015,
was to eventually expand with more branches all over Doha-Qatar. This is the reason in 2016, I
requested Mr. Athanasios Bontantiotis and Mr. Edmond Cena to investigate more potential locations to
expand Luminous in Doha. As a result of this investigation, the Lease Contract for Falcon and Pearl
Towers Luminous Café, which is at the ground floor of Four Seasons Hotel located in West Bay
Diplomatic Street in Doha-Qatar, was signed between myself and the Property Manager (Al-Mirqab Real
Estate Company) on 21 December 2016 (Lease Contract attached to Annex J hereto).
Subsequent to which, towards the end of 2016 after several requests on your part, expressing your
interest to join the successful business of Luminous, I proposed, and the Luminous shareholders
mutually agreed for you to officially become part of the Luminous business as a shareholder.
Consequently, the “Articles of Association Limited Liability Company” under Documentation Number
‘11985’ was concluded and signed between us (‘the Shareholders’) on 28 February 2017, in the manner
shown in Figure 2 below.
Figure 2
Our joint venture in Luminous Espresso Industry Cafes, commenced with Two (2) properties, the first
one being the aforementioned property located at the Ground Floor of Falcon and Pearl Towers (Lease
Contract signed on 21 December 2016), and the second one being the Luminous Museum Park Café
located at Waseef Tower Doha-Qatar which is managed by Waseef Asset Management Co. The Lease
Contract of Luminous Museum Park Café located at Waseef Tower was signed between us and the
Property Manager (Waseef Asset Management Co.) later in the year of 2017.
In this regard and for the sake of clarity, I reiterate, that Luminous Café located at IBQ, remained in the
ownership of the shareholders shown in Figure 1 (i.e. Ms. Eiman Ali Gh A Al-Tamimi and Mr. Albert Leka)
and has not form part of the joint venture with you.
Subsequent to this, the intention as mentioned above, for Mr. Athanasios Bontantiotis and Mr. Edmond
Cela to obtain a percentage of shares according to their performance, materialled in December 2017.
Specifically, both Mr. Bontantiotis and Mr. Cela, proceeded with buying Three and a half percent (3.5%)
of shares respectively, for Luminous Cafes at Falcon & Pearl Towers, as well as at Waseef Tower, on 14
December 2017. The percentages of the shareholders had been adjusted accordingly, in the manner
shown Figure 3 below.
Figure 3
A few months later, and after mutually agreeing with all shareholders, Mr. Athanasios Bontantiotis and
Mr. Edmond Cela, decided to leave the joint venture of Luminous Espresso Industry Café and sold their
respective shares to both yourself and myself. A new “Articles of Association Limited Liability Company”
(hereunder referred to as “the Agreement”) was signed between us on 5 September 2018 under
Documentation number ‘44190’ and the new percentages of the shareholders had been once again
adjusted in the manner shown in Figure 4 below. It is noted that to date the agreed percentage of each
shareholder, remains in the manner shown in Figure 4 below.
Figure 4
All documents associated with the subsequent changes of the shareholders have been attached to
Annex B hereto, for your information and ease of reference.
Detailed Chronology of Events (Coronavirus - COVID-19)
In March 2020 due to the outbreak at pandemic level of the coronavirus (COVID-19), we were notified
about the measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus, imposed by the State of Qatar. Specifically,

on 15 March 2020, the Government of the State of Qatar, issued an official circular, instructing all the
coffee shops and restaurants to suspend their dining services and to provide ‘Take Away’ services to
their customers only (official circular attached to Annex K hereto). This has severely affected our
business and has resulted in significant operational disruption, such as failure in the supply chain, a
sudden reduction in demand from customers, etc., which have all created and continue to create serious
financial issues for Luminous Espresso Industry Café.
On the same day, 15 March 2020 you sent an email [6:35 AM], to inform the Luminous staff about the
“hard decision on the business model” that the business should have to take from there onwards due to
the implications of the COVID-19. Subsequent to which, I also sent an email on 15 March 2020 [13:03
PM], requesting Mr. Edison to contact our Qatari partner, Ms. Eiman, to seek assistance and
clarifications from the Ministry of Health in regards to the directives associated with this situation. I also
noted that we might be able to be entitled to financial assistance by the State of Qatar, due to the
impacts of COVID-19, under Force Majeure, which may be covered under the Qatar’s Civil Code such us
i.e. Article 258. Please note that all mentioned emails, are attached to Annex C hereto.
It was very positive to read your abovementioned email dated 15 March 2020 [6:35 AM], providing
instructions to the staff to take all necessary measures, and stating inter alia that “…Safety is
paramount. Please alert all staff to be vigilante for any signs of sickness. Please post a few health
reminders about cleaning hands etc.”. It was also respectable for you to mention that “…in days of crisis
we are all judged by our actions!! Im just going on record!”. Unfortunately, despite your initial positive
approach to the matter, your subsequent actions proved to be the exact opposite than positive, in
regards to the health and safety of the Luminous’s staff, as elaborated below. In addition, your
statement “…in days of crisis we are all judged by our actions!! Im just going on record”, has proven to
be useful while drafting this letter as explained below in this letter.
On 16 March 2020 [10:10 AM], subsequent to our request, the Operation Manager of Luminous Mr.
Edison Doci, emailed us to provide an action plan regarding the situation (email attached to Annex C).
On 22 March 2020, we sent another official letter (attached to Annex D hereto) to Al Mirqab Real Estate
Company’s management, subsequent to the previous letters sent on 29 February 2020 and 13 March
2020 (attached to Annex F hereto), on behalf of Luminous Espresso Company, requesting them to
mutually agree on ways to assist and support the business during the COVID-19 period.
On 26 March 2020, as per the continued efforts of the State of Qatar to reduce gatherings and
implement preventive measures to halt the COVID-19, all nonessential businesses including cafes, were
instructed to completely shut down starting from 27 March 2020 and until further notice (official
circular attached to Annex K hereto).
On 7 April 2020 [10:46 AM], Mr. Edison emailed to inform us about the Government’s support plan to
businesses, and attached thereto the ‘FAQ: COVID-19 National Guarantees Response Scheme’ (email
attached to Annex C). Evidently, the State of Qatar issued a Scheme, by granting a loan for businesses
affected by the financial impacts due to COVID-19. You responded to this email on the same day at
[11:44 AM] requesting Edison to also prepare other scenarios, in the following manner:
“…besides the loan you need to prepare other scenarios ie limit personnel to be continued under
luminous past April, reduced salaries, settlements etc Many companies have been terminating staff
depending on their needs ie two income family vs one. Reducing salaries and or providing rent and living
allowance only. Please consider all these”
It is noted that your approach to the matter as seen above, albeit it could be considered realistic based
on the unpresented effects the COVID-19 has caused, however, it was also discouraging for the staff of
Luminous. This approach on your part, continued while emailing Luminous’s accountant Ms. Anila Mria
on 9 April 2020 [06:01 AM], wherein you stated inter alia, “…If it was just up to me I will gradually
release all staff…” (emails are reproduced in Figure 5 below and also attached in Annex C hereto):
Figure 5

In this regard, considering that this was a developing situation in respect of the COVID-19 pandemic, I
concede that all scenarios must be assessed, however, it was unfortunate to see that your initial
reaction to this matter, amongst others, was to consider terminating all the staff. Since this was the
beginning of this developing situation, I’m strongly of the opinion, that the actions which should have
been taken into consideration and be a priority during these initial stages of the pandemic, was to
ensure the health and safety of the Luminous’ staff. During these initial stages, all other matters apart
from the health and safety of the staff, could and should certainly have been assessed at a later stage
depending on the development of the situation. I strongly disagree with your initial approach and
response to this matter, and certainly, this is not how a reliable business operates. During these difficult
times, the most important measures to be implemented for every business, is to ensure that all
employees are protected and appreciated, especially taking into consideration that outbound and
inbound flights were also affected in Qatar. In addition to this, all of Luminous’ employees have
contributed significantly to the success of the business thus far, and this has to be acknowledged and
appreciated. I’m certainly aware of this, since it is in fact, implemented in my numerous other
businesses which operate in Eight (8) different countries around the globe, currently employing circa
Two Thousand (2000) people.
On 13 April 2020 [7:10 AM], Mr. Edison emailed us to inform us that the bank loan preparation to be
submitted to the bank, was ongoing and it was processed and also presented us with an action plan for
both scenarios (i.e. loan approved and loan not approved). In his email, Mr. Edison suggested alternative
ways to refrain from releasing the staff as suggested by you. The emails from Mr. Edison continued
throughout the whole development of the pandemic, to keep us informed on all actions taken for the
‘survival’ of the business and also for the safety and wellbeing of the staff.
Your full response dated 13 April 2020 [9:26 PM] to Mr. Edison’s email, is enclosed to Annex C hereto,
and is highlighted in red color for clarity. In summary, via your said email, you stated the following:
•
Requested more information in regards to the loan requirements by stating that “A. Im not sure
what the loan is and on what expenses Is based. Certainly it must be based on the minimum staff
required Given the fact that Ramadan and summer is approaching.”;
•
Expressed your opinion that “B. I don’t agree with your assumption as I have told you many
times. All but the Albanians must be released immediately. Living allowance could be provided” and
requested Mr. Edison to “…Make a deal with the Albanians to get their end of service…”;
•
Advised Mr. Edison to “not insist” on his request to “not terminate all the staff” since it will have
consequences on the rest of the team and it will not be easy to find new people as advised by Mr.
Edison. In detail, you stated “C. Do not insist but be a pragmatist. The situation will never be the same.
We can always find staff.”;
•
In addition, it is put on record that it was unfortunate, distressing and insulting to read the
remaining of your email which included inter alia, statements such as:
(i)
“…Most business are releasing staff…”;
(ii)
“…I don’t agree in sharing any pain…”;
(iii)
“…We are not a charity and we are not a big corporation…”;
(iv)
“… I don’t trust Al mirqab at all and they are the reason we are in this shitty situation with
Almirgab 1 2 3 and all the shit that went on in February with the parking situation with all the threats
and bullshit that went with all of you And Joe [Soueid]…”;
At this juncture, I’m compelled to remind you of your email dated 15 March 2020 [6:35 AM, wherein
you drawn attention to the importance of the safety of the staff stating “…Safety is paramount […] in
days of crisis we are all judged by our actions!! ...”. In this regard, the message you tried to convey, you
now sadly seem to have overlooked and disregarded.

Attached to Annex C hereto, you can read the continuation of the email correspondences discussed
above; which are as follows: my email dated 16 April 2020 [17:09 PM] and your email dated 17 April
2020 [1:45 AM], wherein I responded to your comments (i) to (iv) shown in the paragraph above, to
provide a more optimistic approach and solutions to this difficult and developing situation. Most
importantly, I emphasized on the need to handle the situation with the staff as reliably and fairly as
possible.
A further email on my part dated 27 April 2020 [10:51 AM] to Mr. Edison providing suggestions on the
way forward is also attached to Annex C hereto.
On 13 May 2020, as per the Government instructions to allow all coffee shops and restaurants to open
and to only serve take away orders (official circular attached to Annex K hereto), Luminous re-opened
following the rules respectively (refer to Annex C attached hereto email confirmation dated 12 May
2020 [5:08 PM] by Mr. Edison). This decision was taken after numerous discussions between the
shareholders, including discussions with Ms. Eiman. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the
Luminous business located at the Four Seasons (Falcon Tower) has always been the most profitable of
all our Luminous cafes and the continuation of the business, particularly at this location, must be
ensured at all times. Moreover, the decision to open Luminous was taken, albeit your disagreement to
it, to open Luminous after numerous requests and to the satisfaction of our valued customers. Our
customers are the driving force behind our success and we will always strive to satisfy them. In this
regard, I remind you of your email dated 19 January 2019 [10:49 PM], attached to Annex N, wherein you
proclaimed the exact same expression in regards to our customers, stating “…I believe if we
concentrated satisfying our existing customers they will be the driving force behind our success…”. It is
unfortunate to now notice that, you have elected to disregard your abovementioned statement, and
have objected to the opening of Luminous, after the announcement on13 May 2020 of the Government,
allowing coffee shops to open for take away services.
On 31 May 2020 [3:28 AM], Mr. Edison confirmed among others, all of the three (3) shareholders
signatures on the loan application of Two Hundred Thousand Dirhams [QAR 200,000.00] and the loan
application was submitted to the bank (attached to Annex E hereto). It is worth mentioning that the loan
application was prepared over Two (2) months prior to submission, but due to your refusal to sign, it
was inexcusably delayed to be submitted. It is not clear what are the exact reasons the loan has not yet
been approved by the bank, but it is highly likely, the late submission of the loan application, has played
a major role and affected the process.
On 14 June 2020, Mr. Edison took over the accounting tasks, due to the departure of Ms. Anila who was
dealing with the accounting works for the business up to that date, and Mr. Edison continued to update
us in all maters by sending numerous emails and reports regarding the pending payables, including the
emails on 28 June 2020 attached to Annex C hereto.
In this regard, the SUM of the pending payables amounted to One Hundred Ninety-Two Thousand Seven
Hundred Eighty-Two Qatari Riyals and Fifty Dirhams [QAR 192,782.50] and it was equally shared into the
respective percentages of the two (2) shareholders, myself (Mr. Albert Leka) with a Sixty Two Percent
(62%) and yourself (Mr. Dimitrios Prekas) with a Thirty-Eight percent (38%). For clarity, the
abovementioned amount, is associated with the pending dues of the rent, supplies and salaries, and is
including the pending amounts prior to the COVID-19 closure of the business, as well as, pending dues
during and after the closure of Luminous. Each of the respective pending amounts sent to us by Mr.
Edison, via the abovementioned emails are reproduced in Figure 6 below:
Figure 6

In this regard, Mr. Edison informed us about the requirement for us to find the financial means and the
solutions to finance the business, as Luminous was receiving a lot of pressure from the suppliers to
arrange all pending dues to them, as well as the pending dues for the rent and the staff salaries.
On 15 June 2020 [4:40 PM], Mr. Edison emailed us once again to remind us about the pending payables.
Attached to the email was inter alia, a highlighted list with red color, indicating the urgent pending
payables, which would require immediate action in the manner shown in Figure 7 below:
Figure 7
My response to Mr. Edison’s email below was received by you on 17 June 2020 [5:13 PM], wherein I
informed you that “We have to inject money into our business within 12 days for us to have enough
funds in the bank to accommodate the rents as they might cancel the lease contract for the reason that
we are not capable of paying it to them”.
Subsequent to which you responded on 17 June 2020 [7:13 PM] in the manner shown in Figure 8 below:
Figure 8
As it can be seen in Figure 8 above, your email was not only distressing beyond any reasonable
explanation, wherein you expressed your anger in a very unsuitable manner and tone, about the
situation COVID-19 has caused not only to Luminous, but also to most businesses in the State of Qatar,
but it also contained ill-mannered insults towards numerous respectful individuals. Its noted that
disrespectful insults and swear words were used, in addition to the diminishing words and expressions
used towards numerous respected people including Ms. Eiman, Mr. Edison, myself and others. It was
also sad and unfortunate to even notice that your email was addressing Ms. Eiman, our Qatari partner,
in a diminishing and disconcerting tone, a lady of respect who has supported and continues to support
not only Luminous café from the start but also ADMC for years, since the start of the business till date.
In this regard, despite the fact that to-date you have not yet apologized, I hope that you will eventually
‘rise above this’ and apologize to each of the individuals you disrespected. I strongly believe that a
genuine apology would be taken positively and would be beneficial for everyone, and I humbly request
that you do so, at the earliest.
Nevertheless, with your abovementioned email shown in Figure 8, you also stated that you “I told you
guys not to keep funds in the bank last month. You let them cash the checks in a period of crisis”,
disregarding a number of things which make this request not only unreasonable, but also unlawful (the
reasons why this request is unlawful will be further explained and elaborated herein below). You seem
to have overlooked the fact that the State of Qatar, had already announced measures to financially
support businesses that have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Moreover, your email mentions that you “…can only contribute 38% of my share to one month’s rent.
And that is for this month [July 2020] …”, disregarding the numerous emails sent by Mr. Edison providing
details regarding all pending financial obligations of Luminous’ to date. Most certainly the amount of
Thirty-eight percent (38%) for the rent of July 2020, is not sufficient to cover the financial obligations of
the business which have accumulated to date, which also include pending dues prior to Covid-19, as
stated above.
I responded and addressed each of your concerns raised in your email sent on 17 June 2020 [7:13 PM]
via my email dated 21 June 2020 [2:52 PM], reproduced in Figure 9 below and attached to Annex C
hereto (red color represents my comments/response). Please note that throughout all our
correspondences, I have at all times, kept a high level of professionalism, always addressing matters in a
polite manner.

Figure 9
For the sake of clarity, via my above email dated 17 June 2020 [7:13 PM], inter alia I clarified the
following:
•
Mentioned once again, that the government offers financial support and credit facilities to small
private businesses, in response to the implications of the spread of COVID-19 (Annex G refers);
•
Reminded you of a number of letters sent to the Property Manager (Annex F refers), including
the letter dated 13 March 2020, wherein we requested Al Mirqab Property Management, inter alia (ii)
termination of Tenancy Contract of AMC 2, (ii) informed them about the impact COVID-19 has had on
our business, (iii) requested exempts on paying or at least reduction of the rent during the closing period
to facilitate our business. Evidently, all of our requests and letters requesting exempts, have all been
rejected by M/s Al Mirqab unfortunately. Attached to Annex F is also our letter dated 29 February 2020,
with subject “Request to revise the contract for Al Mirqab Compounds with the new proposals”, which
has been sent to M/s Al Mirqab to request a revision of the Lease Contracts for all Luminous cafes
located at Al Mirqab Compounds (i.e. Al Mirqab [AMC] 1, 2 and 3) and suggested a new business plan for
the Luminous Coffee Industry. You are well aware that all of our abovementioned requests have not
been accepted by the Property Manager, an example is M/s Al Mirqab’s Real Estate Manager email (i.e.
Mr. Arif Khan) dated 14 May 2020 [2:08 PM] attached to Annex H hereto, refusing to terminate the
lease agreement for AMC2;
•
Clarified that Mr. Joe Soueid is a business associate and not a friend as mentioned in your email
and also requested that you also actively attempt to get in touch with Mr. Joe for any concerns you may
have in regards to the property management. It is noted that you had not been joining the meetings
held between myself and the Property Manager nor have you been putting any efforts to discuss
matters concerning Luminous with M/s Al Mirqab;
•
Made it clear, that it is also your obligation to contribute to the business’s pending dues, based
on your agreed share (i.e. 38%) as per our Agreement;
•
Explained and reminded you, that you can always call Ms. Eiman, who is our Qatari partner, for
any clarifications you may seek to obtain and also reiterated that your late signature on the bank loan
application letter may have affected the approval of the bank loan;
•
Made it perfectly clear that ADMC will not be able to financially assist Luminous anymore, since
ADMC itself, has also been affected by the consequences of COVID-19;
•
Expressed my disagreement on the part you mentioned about “withdraw any funds from the
bank account” and reiterated that this may give grounds to the Property Manager to cancel our lease
contract; As mentioned above, Luminous café located at the ground floor of Four Seasons Hotel, is the
most profitable of all our Luminous cafes and the continuation of business must be safeguarded at all
times.
•
Lastly, I strongly expressed my opinion regarding your statements about the staff, in response to
your comment that you requested Mr. Edison to “please prepare the staff! Difficult times are not behind
us but are catching up because of bad decisions during the crisis”, and made it patently clear that our
staff will be treated reliably and fairly and all actions associated with our employees, will be handled in a
gentle manner accordingly, to ensure fair treatment to the staff.
You responded on the same day on 21 June 2020 [5:51 PM], unfortunately continuing to be badmannered, and utterly disrespectful with more insults towards myself, Mr. Joe, while swearing and
expressing false allegations. In this regard, I kindly request once again, to apologize accordingly. Your
email is reproduced in Figure 10 below (full email attached to Annex C hereto):
Figure 10

You can find attached to Annex C and also reproduced in Figure 11 below, my response dated 22 June
2020 [7:23 AM], to your email 21 June 2020 [5:51 PM] which answers to each of your points. It is once
again worth noting that my response in this regard continues to keep a high level of professionalism and
respect towards yourself and towards all shareholders/stakeholders (blue color represents my
comments/response):
Figure 11
The main points that I wish to point out from my above response are the following:
•
My numerous requests for you to meet with the Property Manager (i.e. Mr. Joe) which you have
not done so thus far;
•
Made it clear that you are also a signatory of all letters sent associated with matters concerning
Luminous, thus you are well aware of all matters and decisions taken;
•
Requested a Shareholders meeting to discuss and finalize the future of Luminous business;
•
Reminded you of the major financial assistance ADMC and myself has been providing to
Luminous, since the beginning;
•
Reiterated that all decisions taken thus far have been discussed between all shareholders and
have been agreed by the majority of the shareholders;
•
Reminded you, that you only joined Luminous a year after the concept of Luminous was
conceived, implemented and developed into a business;
•
Advised you of my professional relationship with both Mr. Joe and Ms. Eiman;
•
Confirmed and ensured you, that all pending dues to that date would be crosschecked
numerous times by Luminous manager and accountant, to ensure the correctness of the amounts;
On 28 June 2020 [7:12 PM], I received your email in the manner shown in Figure 12 below and attached
to Annex C hereto, wherein you informed us that you “…deposited the Prekas share of 38% on the
amount of 37000 for west bay and rent amount of amount of 7000 QAR for Al Mirqab 1. The amount
deposited was 16,720 =38% (44000) …”.
Figure 12
It is noted that in your email reproduced in Figure 12 above, inter alia you mentioned about an alleged
“mismanagement of the rent situation during the crisis” from Mr. Edison, which is refuted in its entirety.
On the contrary, Mr. Edison and I, have managed the whole situation from the beginning in a very
proactive and positive manner, following all guidelines announced by the Government.
In your email shown in Figure 12, you have also mentioned that you “had given a direct instruction not
to open the shops during the crisis and clear instruction to remove the funds from the bank” (bold and
underlined for emphasis). It was negatively surprising to actually read, that you have suggested to the
shop manager (Mr. Edison) to “remove the funds from the bank” to avoid the rent being paid on time.
This was surprising, due to the fact that it is commonly known in the State of Qatar, that it is illegal to
withdraw in bad faith funds so that the remaining balance in the bank account is not sufficient to pay
the rent. For the avoidance of doubt, please be informed that pursuant to Article 357 of the Qatar Penal
Code, your suggested action is considered illegal. Specifically, Article 357 states the following:
“Whoever maliciously commits the following acts: Writing a check, without sufficient funds to cover it
face value. Withdrawing all or some of the funds from an account after giving a check in a way that
leaves insufficient funds to cover the amount of the check. Ordering the recipient of the check not to
exchange or deposit it Intending to write or sign the check in a way that prevents its exchange.
Delivering a due cheque knowing that it is uncovered or not exchangeable”.
In addition to this, we have a specific Clause 24 in the Lease Contract with the Property Manager M/s Al
Mirgab regarding the rent which states the following:

“If the second party fails to pay the monthly rent and/or services charges when due and if nonpayment
continues for more than fifteen (15) calendar days, without the need of written notice from The First
Party concerning such non-payment, or if The Second Party fails to perform any of his obligations in
accordance with the terms of the present Contract or any of the provisions of the law; then the First
Party may, in addition to any other remedies provided in The Contract automatically terminate The
Contract without any further action or notice by either party, in addition to claiming for a fair
compensation.”
Consequently, not only your suggestion to “remove the funds from the bank” is unlawful, but we would
have also put our business at the risk of being evicted by the Property Manager once again, which could
not be acceptable on my part nor would I allow it to happen. Paradoxically, you also sought to record
your unlawful and arbitrary request on your email correspondence by stating that “Please note the
mismanagement of the rent situation during the crisis is recorded in this email”.
At this juncture, it is important to open a brief parenthesis to mention some important events that took
place in 2018.
You are well aware and it is worth reminding you that on 30 August 2018, Luminous received a letter
entitled “Non-Renewal Notice” attached to Annex I hereto, wherein M/s Al Mirqab Real Estate Company
had informed us that they were intending not to renew our lease contract for the Luminous Coffee shop
at the Falcon and Pearl towers (Four Seasons Hotel), which was signed on 14 December 2016, and had
requested us to consider the letter as “a written notice to vacate the premises upon the expiry of the
lease as stated in the agreement”.
We wrote back to them via our letter dated 5 September 2018 (attached to Annex I hereto) to express
our disappointment and surprise to receive a termination without prior verbal or written warning and
without giving us a chance to renegotiate for a new leasing Agreement. In addition, in our letter inter
alia, we stated our discontent since the termination notice was sent after Eighteen (18) months of
operation of the business and it had not been justified. Lastly, via our letter, we invited the Property
Manager to enter into a negotiation with us, in an effort to maintain the property and consequently the
operation of Luminous café at the Ground Floor of Four Seasons Hotel. After numerous meetings and
discussions between us and the Property Manager, it became apparent that the termination notice
received was associated with the intention of the Property Manager and the Landlord / Owner, to rent
the property where Luminous is situated at the ground floor of Four Seasons Hotel and consequently sell
the café where Luminous had been established to someone else. It is for this reason, we had a meeting
with M/s Al Mirqab on 9 September 2018 to discuss the matter, as described in your email sent on 9
September 2018 [3:10 PM], attached to Annex I hereto, wherein you recorded the ‘Minutes of Meeting’
with M/s Al Mirqab. In your email you elaborated on our discussion with Mr. Joe, confirming Mr. Joe’s
suggestion “…that if we set a goal to rent additional properties with Al Mirqab he will persuade the
Sheikh…” he would cancel the termination and allow Luminous to remain at the Falcon and Pearl
towers, West Bay area. Moreover, in your email dated 9 September 2018 [3:10 PM] inter alia, you
confirmed your suggestions as follows (Figure 13 refers):
Figure 13
In this regard, it is worth noting that inter alia, your second suggestion as seen in Figure 13 above,
clearly suggests that you are agreeing “…to that Luminous will rent additional spaces from Al Mirqab
within the first year after the new lease agreement is in place…”.
On 11 September 2018 [11:19 AM], after mutually drafting and agreeing on a response, we sent an
email to M/s Al Mirqab Properties, as attached to Annex I, confirming our intention to enter into an
agreement with them in regards to leasing a further Three (3) properties located at Three (3) respective
Al Mirqab villa compounds.

Subsequent to numerous discussions between us, detail investigations, and meticulous review and
comments made particularly by you on the Lease Contracts of the Three (3) Properties at Al Mirqab villa
compounds i.e. Al Mirqab 1 & 2 & 3 (refer to Annex L attached hereto, which includes your detailed
comments on the Lease Agreements), on 20 September 2018 [2:25 PM] we sent an email to M/s Al
Mirqab Real Estate Company i.e. Mr. Joe (email enclosed to Annex I hereto) to confirm our intention to
lease a total of Four (4) properties (i.e. Al Mirqab 1 & 2 & 3 and Falcon & Pearl Towers) in the manner
shown in Figure 14 below:
Figure 14

In our email on 20 September 2018 [2:25 PM], we also mentioned to Mr. Joe our suggestion “…that the
contract start date for all [properties] should be 1st February [2019] as [the Lease Contract for Luminous
at Falcon Tower] west bay will be finished on January [2019] and the other 3 couldn’t be ready till that
time for operation”.
Enclosed to Annex I hereto, are further email correspondences providing additional information on the
decisions and procedures prior to our acceptance and signature of Lease Contracts for all the properties
Luminous would be located, as shown in Figure 14 above. Attached to Annex I hereto, are also the
signed copy of the Lease Contracts dated 3 October 2018, of the Three (3) properties rented from Al
Mirqab Real Estate Company located at Al Mirqab 1 & 2 & 3, which were signed by us on 25 October
2018.
It is important for the reader to understand the detailed history of events in regards to the decisions
which have been mutually taken for the survival and continuation of Luminous café in Qatar, taking into
consideration M/s Al Mirqab Real Estate Company’s intention to cancel the lease contract in 2018,
received via their abovementioned letter dated 30 August 2018, wherein we were instructed to vacate
the premises upon the expiry of the lease. As a result of this and as discussed above we both have taken
important decisions to ensure the operation of Luminous café is maintained to date.
Parenthesis closed
It is for this reason that, on 29 June 2020 [3:40 AM] I informed you via email that I would be
immediately proceeding with depositing the amount of Sixty-Four Thousand Qatari Riyals (QAR
64,000.00) which represents the respective shareholding percentage of Sixty-Two Percent (62%), for the
rent of all Luminous coffee shops namely, ALM‐Compound 1 (for the monthly pending rent of April,
May, June and July 2020), Westbay 1 Falcon Tower (pending rents for June-July 2020) and Waseef
Tower (July 2020 Rent).
On my email of 29 June 2020, I also drew your attention to the pending rent obligations of the previous
months and requested you to ensure that these obligations are settled the soonest. Moreover, I
reminded you of our Contractual obligations between us and the Property Manager, in regards to Clause
24 as stated above about the rent. Specifically, while taking into consideration the serious preceding
events discussed above, associated with M/s Al Mirqab’s previous intention to cancel the Lease
Contract, I underlined on the matter and mentioned that we must not “…give Al Mirqab the reason to
warn us about the delays and this worries me most […] Again, as I said, we cannot remove the funds
from the bank and to give Al Mirqab the reason to terminate the contract ”.
Moreover, in my email I also raised my concern regarding the “…request for Loan application [which]
wasn't signed on time and unfortunately, the application is not yet approved…”.
My email to you was concluded by confirming that “I will transfer the pending amount intended for
Salaries on the 1st week of July [2020]”.
My aforementioned email on 29 June 2020 [3:40 AM] is reproduced in Figure 15 below for ease of
reference:
Figure 15

On 1 July 2020, the government issued a new circular for coffee shops & restaurants, which allowed us
to serve customers for dining, at the indoor and outdoor areas at a thirty percent (30%) capacity which
was subsequently increased in a specified capacity.
At the date of writing this letter (13 July 2020), the COVID-19 situation has not subsided and even
though some of the measures imposed by the Qatari Government have been relaxed, and Luminous has
been operating albeit on a much lower capacity following the instructions by the authorities, however,
the financial impact that the business has had and continues to have, is major. The situation might even
progressively worsen, unless and until the pandemic becomes controlled or subsides entirely. Sadly,
Luminous business faces weeks, if not months, of exceptionally poor operational conditions. The
revenue lost in this period, due to the low capacity of Luminous imposed upon it by the State of Qatar, is
putting sudden and unanticipated pressure on working capital lines and liquidity.
In the past you have numerous times expressed your appreciation towards ADMC and myself in regards
to the financial support provided to Luminous. In the past, you have also acknowledged and voiced your
gratitude by stating that, without the financial stability ADMC and myself has been providing and
continues to provide to Luminous, you would have not entered into a business venture with Luminous.
It is emphasized that ADMC and myself, have continued to this date, to provide financial assistance,
notwithstanding your lack of the equivalent 38% (based on our agreement) financial contribution on
time, for the same.
However, despite you have in the past acknowledged the financial support ADMC and myself has
provided to Luminous, I regret to note that in some instances you have also raised some concerns
associated with alleged sums “…pulled out without notice from the Luminous bank account for ADMC
back payment “loans”…”, and other similar assertions, as discussed in your email 28 November 2018
[2:21 PM] attached to Annex M. This is despite, in some important instances in the past, no efforts have
been made on your part in financially assisting the administrational and operational requirements of
Luminous.
The abovementioned allegations on your part as seen in your email dated 28 November 2018 [2:21 PM]
are refuted in their entirety, and it is put on record that neither ADMC nor myself, have withdrawn any
unjustified amounts/sums from Luminous bank account without notice, as stated in your
abovementioned email. On the contrary, I have personally, always ensured that details are provided for
your review, information, and approval, in regards to pending amounts due to ADMC from Luminous. An
example of this, is my email on 20 October 2018 [10:21 AM], attached to Annex M hereto, wherein I
requested Ms. Rina (who was dealing with the financial management of Luminous) to clarify and send
for your review and approval, all the details regarding the expenses ADMC had occurred, while
financially supporting Luminous at the times of need.
In this regard, if you insist that unjustified amounts have been withdrawn from Luminous’s bank
accounts, then the burden of proof is upon you, and you must suitably demonstrate and provide
substantiation which validates, that alleged sums have been unfairly and deceitfully withdrawn from
Luminous’s bank account to pay ADMC. Therefore, until sufficient evidence and justification have been
provided, to the contrary, ADMC and myself maintain the position that no sums have ever been
“involuntary and or improperly” withdrawn from the Luminous bank account, as alleged in your emails. I
am content to rely upon recorded data that when presented for objective review will reveal the facts in
this matter.
Notwithstanding the considerable efforts made and continued to be made on my part, in most of the
instances you appeared either not to understand, or blatantly refused to accept, the requirements in
addressing specific matters for the financial survival of the business.
In conclusion, as the case may be, there is a requirement, especially during this current period of the
summer months, to approach our bank for funding arrangements. As mentioned above, I note that in

the past ADMC and myself had been able to support any liquidity issues Luminous might have had.
However, ADMC, would not be able to continue funding Luminous anymore and would not be able to
shoulder alone the financial responsibility or easing any financial constraints imposed by our Banks.
In addition, I will from today onwards, continue to financially contribute not more than the Sixty-two
percent (62%) of my contractual obligation. This practice is ensuring that neither ADMC nor myself will
suffer any further undue time and financial losses while supporting Luminous.
All of which, must be dealt with immediately and on an urgent basis to secure the liquidity of the
Luminous. In the middle of this deep financial crisis, our actions will affect the very existence of
Luminous Espresso Industry Café WLL in Doha Qatar.
In summary, the purpose of this letter is multifold and is as follows:
•
To put on record the detailed chronology of events from the start of Luminous Espresso Industry
Café WLL located in Doha-Qatar, till date;
•
To clarify the actions which have been taken from all shareholders/stakeholders of Luminous
till-date, and how these actions have impacted the business;
•
To record the impact COVID-19 pandemic has had and continues to have on Luminous in Qatar;
•
On behalf of everyone, to kindly request that you apologize, for your ill-mannered, swearing and
disrespectful behavior expressed in your correspondences shown above. I trust that such inappropriate
behavior will not be repeated;
•
To reiterate and notify you, that as per our Agreement you are legally responsible to financially
contribute Thirty-Eight percent (38%) towards all costs, including but not limited to, capitalization,
administrational and operational costs, etc. of Luminous Espresso Industry Café and towards all the
pending financial liabilities accumulated to date, which includes liabilities, prior and post COVID-19;
•
To inform you of the necessity of Luminous and the funds urgently required to proceed with
some maintenance works in regards to the interior part requiring floor renovation and others.
Additionally, there is also a requirement to purchase additional furniture and other equipment (i.e.
outdoor seating area, sofas, tables etc.) which have been damaged or must be replaced. Enclosed to
Annex N hereto, is some previous emails correspondences between us and Mr. Endri Dyrma (General
Operations Manager), wherein a discussion has taken place in regards to the purchase of furniture,
which is now long overdue and must be completed the soonest; and
I trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter, and I await your further
decision and/or action as to how you wish to proceed from today onwards.
Additionally, I trust you will understand that as the case may be, I am considering all of my options.
Yours faithfully,
