
Dear Sir,
(1) RFV0-0401-1569 dated 09 July 2017
(2) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-07423 dated 17 May 2017- Variation Order no 172Omission of Defined Provisional Sums Items 4/P/1/1, J, K & L- Hotel Fit-out
We write in relation to RFVO {1) related to recovery of overhead & profit and attendances due to the
omission of Defined Provisional Sums Items 4/P/1/1, J, K & L- Hotel Fit-out.
In the Request for Variation Order, the Contractor claims that "on the basis that the omitted Hotel Fitout
will be required within the project, TCAJV presume that the Employer intends to award the supply
and installation of the fit-out with another contractor and that the omission entitles TCAJV to recover
overheads and profit for works that are omitted and subsequently carried out by others".
TCAJV are seeking recovery of Overheads and Profit amounting to AED7,000,000 (Defined Provisional
Sums Item 4/P/1/J).
The reasons given by TCAJV regarding entitlement are without basis and are rejected. There is no basis
within the General Conditions of Contract for compensating TCAJV on presumptions that they may
make regarding the Employer's intent.
The definition of Defined Provisional Sums in the General Conditions {Clause 1.1) states;
"Defined Provisional Sum means a sum included in the Contract Price and so designated in Schedule 6
(Bills of Quantities) for the execution of any part of the Works or for the supply of Goods or services, or
for contingencies, which sum may be used, in whole or in part, or not at all, on the instructions of the
Engineer and the Contractor is deemed to have made due allowance for programming, planning and
pricing preliminaries in the Contract Price."
The Conditions of Contract are very explicit with regards to Variations of Provisional Sums and Defined
Provisional Sums (Clause 20.4.1 states);
"Each Provisional Sum or Defined Provisional Sum shall only be used, in whole or in part, accordance
with the Engineer's instructions."
The definition of Variation in the General Conditions (Clause 1.1) includes;
" .... a) the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof."
With regards Pricing of Overheads & Profit, Schedule 6 - Bills of Quantities (of the Conditions of

Contract)- Preamble 12 states;
"The rates inserted in the Bill of Quantities will be used to value any Variations to the Works, whether
omissions or additions. The Contractor shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the
value of any omitted Works"
Based on the above, TCAJV's assessment of a variation in this instance is without entitlement basis,
unrealistic, prohibitively exorbitant and demonstrates unreasonableness of TCAJV's pricing of the
variation. TCAJV are requested to review their RFVOs and ensure that there's entitlement in
accordance with contract before submission.
TCAJV's submission, RFV0/0401/1569 is rejected and a Variation Order in the amount requested will
not be issued.
Yours faithfully,
