Dear Sir,
Change to straight flight stairs of more than 2 flights
Analysis of situation as on the 14th Jan 2016
1

BACKGROUND

•
Employers requirements Volume 6 sub clause 11.4.6.13 states that the maximum rise to a
direction change is 2 flights and section 12 of volume 6 states that where there is an additional level the
escalators should double back. The station designs do not comply with this requirement.

•
The original plan was always to build the straight flights as this is shown on the JV tender
drawings included in volume 11, drawing nr M012-QRC-SKETCH-ARC-6 for example.
•
Unfortunately this planned design was not in compliance with the requirements so a request for
change, M006-GDB-ENG-RFC-00003, was submitted. The client then asked for savings to the contract
and the RFC was subsequently withdrawn.
•
EI 34 was then issued relaxing the requirements and stating that the time and cost impacts
would be dealt with at a later date. This was followed by EI 62 instructing the change as a variation
requesting the JV to provide an initial assessment to the contract price.
•
Upon receipt of EI 34 a notice of claim was submitted and subsequently withdrawn as it was
believed that any impact would be a reduction in the cost.
•
The EI was also sent to Atkins to instruct them to make the change which resulted in a notice of
claim from them. This was also withdrawn as their current designs already complied with the instruction
and therefore there was no impact to the design.

2

CURRENT SITUATION

•
Engineering has still to provide what the actual impact for this change is and therefore we have
been unable to quantify the cost reduction if any.
•
The client is still seeking a cost saving and is calculating its own estimate to apply to the contract
price.
3

ANALYSIS OF THE SITUATION

•
The requirement for switchback stairs and escalators could not have been satisfied at the same
time as the following requirements.
1.
A station with switchbacks means a longer egress, which is in contradiction with section 10 of
the fire protection and life safety requirements.
2.
Larger stair and escalator voids require more cross props between columns at intermediate
levels in contradiction with the Branding document.
3.
Due to overburden/station depth and a maximum straight rise of 6,480mm, a switchback at the
entrance would be required which is in contradiction with the section 12 of the branding documents
direct entrance aspiration.
4.
If the stairs are placed in the middle between up and down escalators it would be virtually
impossible to replace them with escalators in the future, as required by clause 12.1.3.

•
The impact of the change may not have any effect on the cost of the civil works but in order to
be certain of this a draft design that complies with the original requirements may be required to prove
this to the client. We would need to ascertain that there is no change to the total volume of concrete.

•
There would be savings to the Provisional sums and operation and maintenance costs as a one
long escalator is cheaper and easier to install, operate and maintain than 2 short ones.
•
Although we have not notified that this is a value engineering exercise it can be argued that
since the change was first introduced by the JV in our tender, which is included in Volume 11 of the
Contract, then the JV is entitled to a share of any savings resulting from this change which includes
Provisional sums and operation and maintenance costs.
4

ACTIONS

•
Notify the client that this constitutes a value engineering variation and should be valued
accordingly. If the client rejects this because it was not previously notified we can still claim under the
terms of the Civil Code for Good Faith and unjust enrichment by benefitting from cost saving ideas
provided by the JV.
•

Engineering to provide actual impact for calculating the savings.

•
By including the savings of the Provisional sums and life cycle costs it should be possible to
prove that the 60% share of the savings will be more than any cost reduction of the civil works, hence no
reduction in the Contract Price.
Yours faithfully,
