Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0240
External FDB ADDC Approval – Requirement for Additional Type Test or GRP Enclosure– Request for
Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters recorded in Annex A describe an attempt made by you at instigating changes to our existing
scope of works associated with the ‘External FDB ADDC Approval’ which will require a valid Instruction
and Variation Order in order for you to decide whether we are required to provide a type test of GRP
enclosure.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 24 February 2020 [6:43 PM], we e-mailed our Electrical Subcontractor (ANEL) in connection with the
‘External FDB ADDC Approval’ asking them to approach the manufacturer of the FDB (SCHNEIDER), for
‘[an undertaking letter] and approach to ADDC for the approval of external FDB panels similar to
attached block set approval processes was followed. Otherwise we are not able to close ADDC inspector
comment’.
ANEL replied on 25 February 2020 [8:22 AM] and advised us of the following:
‘Schneider already discussed with ADDC and ADDC agreed with Schneider under the condition where
ADAC needs to give acceptance as per the project specification approval

Please find the attached conversation about it where AECOM accepted that installed material as per
approved material. Hence ADAC need to provide letter to ADDC about this acceptance than it will be
cleared
Actually we assumed that this issue was closed last December. Anyhow this is the last situation and we
are waiting ADAC/AECOM action on this’
The above e-mails were forwarded to you on 25 February 2020 vide our e-mail at 11:55 PM in which we
advised that ‘actions with you please advise.’ However, you failed to respond prompting us to e-mail
you again on 8 March 2020 at 1:56 PM. You replied on 5 March 2020 [5:10 pm] stating:
‘We discussed the same with ADAC and ADDC last Thursday and the conclusion can be summarized as
follows:
1.
The contractor to provide type test for the installed panels approved by ADDC based on the
installed enclosure (to proof the panel suitability for outdoor applications as well as ADDC approval for
such application (As that is not currently available, please start the process with ADDC noting that ADDC
rep had taken couple of photos during the last rain where water had seeped inside the panels despite it
should be rated for outdoor application).
2.
Alternatively, study the option of providing GRP enclosure and that can be presented to ADDC
as plan B.’
We make the following comments and observations in relation to the above:
1.
The FDB equipment have been approved
2.
Following approval, the first batch of FDBs were assembled and inspected as benchmark, and
prior to shipping Factory Acceptance Tests were undertaken, the execution of which was witnessed and
approved by you (the Engineer) and the Employer’s Design Consultant.
However, you are now expecting us to decide whether we “provide a type test for the installed panels
approved by ADDC based on the installed enclosure (to proof the panel suitability for outdoor
applications as well as ADDC approval for such application)” or “Alternatively, study the option of
providing GRP enclosure ….” This expectation on your part is unreasonable.
We have already supplied and installed the FDB equipment that complies with the requirements of the
Contract and complies with the requirement of the Employer. It is not for us to decide to provide a type
test or a GRP enclosure. This decision is for you and Others to make, not us.
The corrective action here is for you to approach the Employer and for the Employer to draft an
undertaking letter to ADDC confirming that all external panels are fabricated /delivered / installed as per
specified and accords to the IFC design, and that the FDB equipment was approved by the Employer.
This will eliminate any ADDC’s comments and concerns.
However, you are now requesting us to undertake to provide a type test or provide a GRP enclosure;
both of which are additional to our existing scope. This represents an attempt at changing the existing
IFC requirements and an attempt at varying our scope of Works without adopting the contractual
mechanism for instigating any change in design, this will require the provision of revised IFC Drawings
and an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction/Variation Order for us to integrate such change into the
Works.
We therefore take this further opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause
2.31 of Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we
are not to proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued
first. In which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change to the
Project; this is only after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us
beforehand.
Therefore given that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and it is
patently clearly this has been ignored, then this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI)

and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the
Works.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the express
requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will
continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
