Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0209
Power Supply & Distribution Box/Consumer Unit serving Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP) to FIDS
– Request for IFC Drawings & Engineer’s Instruction
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays associated with your protracted and on-going failure
to provide IFC Drawings in confirmation of the power supply cables and distribution box/consumer units
serving the Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP) to the FIDS to Levels L0.00 and L2.0.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 31 May 2017, we raised RFI/0401/14089 (dated 28 May 2017) entitled ‘Landside External Systems
Power Supply – B227’. Issued following the receipt of Electrical Single Line Diagrams (SLD) IFC under
Bulletin 227, we requested updated layouts (E-01 Landside IFC) that correlate to the SLDs, specifically
updated small power layouts with power circuits for a number of items, including inter alia:
1.
Dynamic Signs / FIDS / AC Units;
2.
Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP);
3.
Outdoor Access Points;
4.
Lights;
5.
Security (Cameras, Lifting Arm Barriers etc.);
6.
Bollards;
7.
Outdoor Desks;

8.
Any other small power requirements; and
9.
Additional Emergency Power Supply for Monitors.
On 2 July 2017 you provided a response to RFI/0401/14089 where the Employer’s Design Consultant
[KPF] advised, amongst other things, that it had ‘received information on the 18 Dynamic Signs that
ADAC OPS requested to be powered up on opening day’, and duly appended thereto, a series sketch
drawings provided by ADAC on 27 April 2017 “for information only”. KPF further advised that “The
Dynamic Signs that are to be connected to the 18 feeders available under [Bulletin] B227 are shown on
the attached sketches ….; while “The power supply to the FCPs ... will be further detailed in the ongoing
exercise that will be sent to the Contactor in due course for levels L0.0 and L2.0.”
Following which, on 7 August 2017, we received a revised Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/14089, in which
KPF provided a more comprehensive response to all of the issues originally raised by us.
In respect of the Dynamic Signs / FIDS, and with reference to the sketch drawings [and schedule titled
‘FCP Power Supply’] appended thereto, KPF advised us that “where ‘Future Provision’ is indicated …
Contractor needs to install necessary containment to the Dynamic Sign Location.” While in relation to
the Fibre Consolidation Points, KPF advised: “The power supply to the FCPs ... is further detailed levels
L0.0 and L2 in the [attached] spreadsheet … ‘170726 FCP Power Supply_Arup_Deerns_V12.’
An extract of that attached FCP Power Supply spreadsheet is reproduced in Figure 1 below:
Figure 1
The information recorded in the FCP Power Supply schedule, shows that the majority of the FCPs refers
to ‘Future Provision (Bulletin 227.1 not issued)’; in other words, the Employer’s requirements for these
particular FCPs remained unclear and the electrical design was not yet available – hence the reference
to a yet to be issued update to Bulletin 227 (Bulletin 227.1). Therefore, it was reasonable for us to
assume that details of the ‘power supply to [remaining] FCPs ... will be further detailed” as part of “the
ongoing exercise” noted above, would be issued in due course as part of Bulletin 227.1.
In the event however, this proved not to be the case at all; Bulletin 227.1 was never issued.
On 5 September 2017 (letter dated 23 August 2017, ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011395), wrote to you in
connection with the Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/14089, advising you, inter alia, of the following:
•
Power layouts for certain distribution boards [cited therein] were not included in the revised RFI
response. We therefore urged you to “issue IFC documents immediately to allow us to proceed
engineering and procurement works.” In which respect, we made it clear in the closing sentence of our
letter that this item was the “primary hold point” for landside works.
•
“FCP / outdoor access points …. are missing on the layouts and on the lists …”
However, it was not until eight months later, on 14 May 2018 (letter ref: MTC-CMA-0401-LTR-09443,
dated 7 May2018) that you replied. Notwithstanding, you advised as that the final load design of the
distribution boards was finalsized and included as part of BP66; while the location of the FCP/outdoor
access units were confirmed as having been determined by us based on heat map studies.
Meanwhile, on 29 April 2018, we raised RFI/0401/16011 (dated 16 April 2018) entitled ‘Requirement for
Additional FCP Data points for Outdoor Wifi locations in Level 0.0’. Issued following the response to
RFI/0401/10988, we recorded that outdoor wi-fi access points had been provisioned in order to meet
the wi-fi coverage requirements. We further recorded that there was currently no provision for the
related data outlets shown on any of the IFC Drawings. We also advised that “In order to activate the
Wifi access points, additional FCP data points along with related Power and FCP switch will be required
to establish the network connectivity for the Wifi.” Accordingly, we requested that you provide us with
updated IFC Drawings showing the related FCP data outlets [and power supply] in [the locations shown
on the attached sketch drawing] “for us to proceed with the works …”
However, rather than comply with our request, and issue us the revised IFC Drawings, your response to
RFI/0401/16011 issued on 22 May 2018, simply advised of the following:

“The location of the supporting services for Wifi (power and data) are the responsibility of the
Contractor to coordinate. The location of the WiFi is the Contractors choice. Provision of power and data
is Contractor responsibility based on the Contractors choice for the location of the WiFi device using his
own heat map analysis of the areas and the requirement to meet the specification for coverage and
performance. Should a WiFi device require new power and data where it previously did not exist
Contractor to relocate and coordinate, as per Specification ….”
It is our contention that this is where the confusion arose as to what we actually asked for/requested,
and what you interpreted this to be. We are clear as to the requirements relating to the power and data
provisions for the Wifi. However, your reply overlooked what was being asked in relation to the
Employer’s intentions associated with the power supply requirements for the additional FCPs. In fact,
there was no mention whatsoever regarding the FCPs in your response to RFI/0401/16011.
The matter however fell silent until the receipt of your e-mail dated 25 June 2019 [11:40 AM] issued in
relation to the ‘External FIDS / IP65 Enclosure’, where you advised us of the following:
‘We have reviewed this and you are to follow the IFC and install all the items until advised otherwise,
with the exception of the following:
PLEASE ONLY INSTALL THE DYNAMIC SCREENS WHICH HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO TAKE POWER.”
Following which, on 13 January 2020 (letter dated 29 December 2020), you wrote to us in connection
with the ‘Provision of Power and Data Connectivity for the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi Access Points in
the External Areas in L0.0 and L2.0’, where you rightly assert that “The issue now remaining is the lack of
power supply for the FCP devices in the external signage affecting the commissioning of the related
Security devices (cameras) and Wi-Fi.” That said, you then contradicted this and wrongly asserted that
the “disagreement” relates to our claim “that there is neither Wi-Fi Drawings nor Data outlet drawing
showing the Wi-Fi Antenna locations.” While in paragraph three you then repeated the response to
RFI/0401/16011 asserting it was our responsibility to provide access and data points.
As noted above, the provision of data and power to the Wi-Fi points is not the issue. The lack of IFC
Drawings showing the power supply requirements for the additional FCPs located within the FIDS is.
However, within your letter, you then informed us of the following
“The delivery of the Wi-Fi and Security equipment (Cameras) functionality is to be treated separately
from the external Signage Power (Bulletin 227 Rev 001) given the fact that the Contractor was fully
aware that the FCP needed power to deliver the full functionality of the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi as
per the DPS Specification which was never descoped.”
While we are only too aware that the FCP needs power to deliver the full functionality of the Security
Cameras and Wi-Fi, absent any IFC Drawings issued to date (i.e. the crux of the issue), then how are we
to know what those power requirements are in terms of cabling and consumer units etc. are?
Given that we have no design liability under the Contract to design the power supply requirements for
the FCP devices in the external signage, then we take this further opportunity in requesting that you
liaise with the Employer’s Design Consultant [whose liability this is], and provide us with properly
coordinated and fully detailed IFC Drawings reflecting the FCP power provisions under cover of an EI.
Meanwhile, until such time as you provide us with revised IFC Drawings indicating the requirements, we
will continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Potential Impact:
However, please be aware that your on-going failure to provide IFC Drawings in confirmation of the
power supply cables and distribution box/consumer units serving the Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP) to
the FIDS to Levels L0.00 and L2.0, will affect commissioning of the security cameras and Wi-Fi; and
accordingly will invariably impact on our ability to obtain the Building Completion certificate (BCC).
This is essential to achieving Milestone MS09B and may impact MS09C (Substantial Completion).

Given this information has remained outstanding since 31 May 2017 (RFI/0401/14089), this cannot
possibly be construed as forming part of or ‘Included Circumstances’ (per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8) and will
be included within any forthcoming Time Impact Analysis, albeit in recognition of the Effective Date
included in SAA8, any delays will be analysed from 4 September 2018 onwards. SAA8 cannot reasonably
be interpreted as requiring the Contractor to absorb delays of unknown (possibly unlimited) duration
occurring pre/post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the matter causing the delay
lies with the Employer. We contend therefore that under the circumstances the responsibility, under
the Contract (as amended by SAA8), for such delays lies with the Employer.
Yours faithfully,
