Subject: Likely Delay Notice (LON) - 2732 Request for Engineer's Instruction [RFEI/0401/0682] Design
Flaws on Security and
Dear Sir,
Telecom Drawings Impacting Site Progress
The Contractor refers to the Engineer's letter referenced in (1) above replying to the Contractor's RFEI
referenced in (3), regarding the Engineer's consideration, the Contractor responds as follows.
We are not in agreement with your statement, "We now consider this matter closed". We reiterate our
position referenced in (3) and requests the Engineer to issue the required instruction imm_ediately to
proceed
with the works.
Reference to letter (2) cannot be considered as closing the matter, as this was only received through
Engineer's letter reference (1) dated 20 September 2018 responding to our RFEI dated 26 February
2018. This
procedure is not in accordance with the Contract, Specification Section 01 33 00, and Item 1.3A.3 where
the
processing time and review period of submittals is twenty one (21) calendar days. It has taken the
Engineer
206 days to respond.

Further to the above, you are informed that we are not responsible for the design, sketches or drawings
to
develop the design. Merely referring to Sub-Consultants late responses purportedly resolving the issues
cannot be accepted. Moreover the reference to RFI's cannot be considered as an instruction when the
response to an RFI clarifies additional scope and varies the works. We do not consider the Engineer's
response in reference (1) and further reference to Sub-Consultant correspondences to be sufficient in
closing
the matter.
Since this clarification was received post 04 September 2018, the Amendment Effective Date of the
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 08, the Engineer is requested to formally instruct us
pursuant to
Sub-clause 20.1.1(b) of the CoC and Sub-Clause 2.29, 2.30 and 2.31 (Variations) of SAA8 to proceed
accordingly.
Subject:

Re: Likely Delay Notice No. 2747 - Door Schedule Revision 32

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (2) above, wherein you rejected our letter referenced (1)
requesting you to issue an Engineer’s Instruction, regarding the discrepancies in the door schedules (DS).
Please note that we refute the content of your letter referenced (2) and inform you that after the
Contractor submitted the relevant detailed coordinated door schedule, the Engineer made numerous
changes in the said DS. Therefore, these changes which were made subsequently to the DS submission
and were not agreed in the door workshops, constitute a Variation under the Contract and require an
Engineer’s Instruction.
Additionally, you are kindly reminded that e-notice “SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26, E-Notice No. – E0007 –
Discrepancies between Door Schedule Rev 31, SACS, Data and Power Provisions”, has been submitted
previously, informing you about the aforementioned discrepancies.
Your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction is required, failing which the works are
likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
We reserve our rights under the Contract pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 (Contractor’s Claims) to an
extension of the Time for Completion and additional Costs arising from the above described event.
Yours faithfully,
