Subject:Notice of Likely Delay No. xxxx
Variation Order Confirmation
Dear Sir,
With reference to your letter (_) above please be advised that the comments, clarifications and/or
instructions contained therein constitute a Variation.
The Engineer issued the following [list below the Engineer’s information which constitutes a Variation]:
1.
___
2.
___
[Describe the changes by illustrating change from the original contract Documents in order to support
the necessary confirmation that the new information constitutes a Variation; attach relevant documents
as necessary to show the basis of entitlement]
A.
If the information provided is partial, incomplete or not capable of being implemented with
immediate effect without further clarity and details then keep this part A, and delete part B, then
continue to part C. If not, delete this part A and continue to Part B.
The information provided in the document(s) outlined above which include comments, clarifications and
/ or instructions are not complete or adequate. As a result such information does not constitute an
instruction and revised or additional Drawings and/or revised or/additional Specification for the purpose
of execution of Works. In addition the information is discrepant with previously issued Drawings and/or
Specification Sections.
You are requested to issue complete fully developed, coordinated and conformed Drawings and/or
Specification Sections which clearly expresses the Employer’s requirements free of discrepancies or
conflicts with previously issued Drawings and/or Specification Sections.

Be reminded that the Engineer is solely responsible to resolve and rectify all errors, omissions,
ambiguities, inconsistencies, discrepancies and any other inadequacies, defects or deficiencies in the
Drawings and/or Specifications. Unreasonably refusing and/or taking any action contrary to the
specified professional duties of the Engineer is a breach of Contract and an act of prevention.
We are unable to undertake such changes without an instruction and revised Drawings and/or
Specification in accordance with the Contract.
B.
If the information provided is complete and capable of being implemented with immediate
effect
but no formal Variation Order has been instructed, then use this part B, delete part A and continue to
part C:
In accordance with Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4 (b), the Contractor is of the view that the
Engineer has issued instructions constituting a Variation which are not in the form of or have not been
confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
Also, please be advised that you have not resolved the Contractor notified errors, omissions,
ambiguities, inconsistencies, discrepancies or other deficiencies in the Drawings and/or Specifications
“by deferring to the order of precedence set out” in Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.1 as set out in
Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.2.
You are hereby requested to make a determination in accordance with your obligations under
Conditions of Contract clause 11.4.1, which set out “…the Engineer shall make a fair determination
strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant circumstances but paying
particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the Contract.” (emphasis
added)
In this regard please take due regard of the Variation “test” in Conditions of Contract clause 9.6.2,
which expressly sets out an exacting criteria and threshold for testing whether such Engineer’s
instructions and/or clarifications constitute Variations or not. The Engineer is obliged to apply these
provisions “strictly in accordance with these Conditions” since these provisions are provided specifically
for this purpose.
We are unable to undertake changes pursuant to informally revised drawings or sketches constituting a
Variation without a formal Variation Order or a confirmation of same.
C.
Ending
Please issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification as a Variation by means
of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising as a result of abortive
works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or the confirmations mandated by
Conditions of Contract clause 20.1.4, 20.1.5 and 20.3.1.
Failing to undertake the Engineer’s duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the
Works and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and an increase to
the Contract Price.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to CoC 9.10.3 that we intend to claim for an extension of the
Time for Completion and the additional Cost implications.
Yours faithfully,
