Subject: Response to the Engineer's Notification of Delay- Air Duct System Cleaning Activity
Dear Sir,
(Final Cleaning and Cleanliness Verification)
With reference to the Engineer's notification of delay reference (1) above, we respond as follows.
The Contractor notes the content and concerns of the Engineer in the above referenced letter. The
Contractor shall investigate and discuss with the relevant Subcontractor, any delays to air duct system
cleaning activity.
Whilst the Contractor is making all sensible efforts and using reasonable endeavours to achieve the
target
dates as per the rev 10.4 Programme and the duct cleaning recovery programme, the Engineer should
appreciate that it may not always be feasible to achieve some of the ambitious targets set in these
programmes, due to unforeseen circumstances.

The Contractor however assures the Engineer and the Employer that it continues to work in good faith
to
meet the accelerated target completion date set for the completion of the Works. Finally, when
assessed
against the update of the rev 10.4 Programme as at 01 February 2018, there is no slippage with respect
to
30 June 2019 target completion, caused by the alleged delays in air duct system cleaning activity.
We trust the above clarifies your concerns.
Subject RE: Additional Cost for Revision of Model and Additional Mould for Slab Edge@
Dear Sir,
North & South Retail Over lift Curved Area
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor requests an additional
payment of AED 22,300.00 for allegedly revising its model and procuring two additional moulds for the
slab
edges at both north and south retail over lift curved areas.
In relation to the Subcontractor's claim that two additional moulds (one for the south and one for north)
had
to be procured in order to fabricate 'two half panels with recesses', the Contractor notes that the
original IFC
I Contract drawings already showed two panels at each of the over lift curved areas. It was due to
Subcontractor's request via RFI No. 12410 that the joint between the two curved panels was removed
making
one large curved slab edge panel. A while after the Subcontractor contended that its production
methodology
could not fabricate one single large curved panel and requested approval for fabricating the said curved
panel
in two halves (RFI No. 13249).
In other words, the Contractor confirms that the number of panels, and therefore the number of
moulds,
required to execute the curved over lift areas remained unchanged if compa red with the IFC I Contract
drawings. Moreover, the changes in the arrangement of the panels were, in all instances, proposed by
the
Subcontractor to better suit its production I installation methodology. Therefore, the Contractor is of
the
opinion that, unless demonstrated otherwise, the Subcontractor should not be compensated for the
additional works claimed in its submission (1).
Yours faithfully
