Subject: Substantiation of Contractor's Mark-Up for Variations
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref. LTR/01289 above and respond as follows:
We do not agree that the Contract only includes an OHP percentage of 7% as shown in the DPS Bill No.4·
of Schedule 6, nor do we agree that there is nothing in the Contract Documents to Support our opinion
that the rates and prices in Schedule 6 contain profit. ·
The rates and prices in Schedule 6 Bills of Quantity for measured works and Preliminaries comprise a
Cost and a margin, as demonstrated in our letter ref: MTB/TCA/ADAC/L/000014 dated 18 July 2012, and
as supported by Condition of Contract [CoC] Clause 20.3.3; wherein reasonable profit is added to
reasonable Cost for Variation works where rates or prices within Schedule 6 BoQ are not relevant to the
Variation works. It stands to reason therefore that the rates and prices in Schedule 6 contain Cost,
overhead (as part of Cost definition, CoC 1.1 refers) and profit. It is this overhead and profit that we
maintain is 11.11% on cost.

We do not agree that that the 11.11% overhead and profit reflected in the breakdown submitted. in our
letter ref: MTB/TCA/ADAC/L/000014 dated 18 July 2012 is "subjective". We did not receive any rejection
of this breakdown and OHP percentage from the Engineer at that time and the Engineer has continued
to use the rates and prices in the BOQ's for the purposes of .Variations.
With regard to Ernst & Young's (E&Y) letter dated 10 M~kh 2014 and your selected quote therefrom
that
" ... The Form, which has been signed by ourselves solely for identification purposes and attached as
Appendix I, is the responsibility of the management of the Joint Venture ... ", the reference to
responsibility refers to the calculation of Total direct and indirect costs by the JV, the abstraction and
summation of Provisional Sum and Daywork amounts from Schedule 6 by JV and the decision by JV to
apply the percentage mark-ups JV elected to apply. E&Y cannot be responsible for this It was E&Y's
responsibility, as stated in the first three steps of their work programme, to agree the items
and amounts for total cost, mark up on cost, provisional sums, mark up on provisional sums and day
works back the Budget. Their report indicates that the items and amounts have been agreed back to the
Budget without any exceptions. Therefore, E&Y have demonstrated that the amounts stated in the
Form, or "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation", t ie back to the Budget without exception.
With respect, your comments that the "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation" is " .. .simply prepared [by
E&Y] by using the total of the General Summary page ... " is preposterous, accusatory of professional
negligence on the part of E&Y and without any comprehension of the processes stated by E&Y in their
'Agreed upon Procedures'. It is in fact the process explained by E&Y in their enumerated paragraphs 1 to
7 that explains the "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation" and the compilation of the resultant numbers that
match those in the Budget and in total the General Summary page of Schedule 6. Fortuitously and with
respect, the Engineer's reverse calculation agrees with that of E&Y's. correct method of computation.
We refer to your selected quote from E&Y's letter dated 10 March 2014 that " ... Because the above
procedures do not constitute either an audit or a review made in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing or International Standard on Review Engagements, we do 11ot express any
assurance on the Form ... ", and your comment that" ... This could be interpreted that EY are unable to
confirm that the figures stated on the Form (Appendix I to the letter) are correct ... ".
E&Y have clearly stated in their Report that the work performed by them clearly indicated that the items
reported on were agreed to the Budget with no exceptions noted; therefore there can be no doubt as to
the correctness of the figures in the Form. The language used in E&Y's report is mandatory under the
standards contained in paragraph 18 J of Section ISRS 4400 in the International Standards of Related
Services.
With regard to E&Y's comment that " ... other matters might have come to our[E&Y] attention that
would have been reported to you [fCA JV] ... ",this language is mandatory under the standards
contained in paragraph 18 K of Section ISRS 4400 in the International Standards of Related Services. It
was
not for E&Y to audit whether costs were correct or not for any items of work or materials, etc., but to
establish that the amounts for total cost, mark up on cost, provisional sums, mark up on provisional
sums
and day works related back to the respective amounts contained in the Budget. This they did with no
exceptions noted.
E&Y's mandate was to calculate the percentage for mark-up on total direct and indirect costs- their
reporting states that they recalculated the percentage at 11.234% with no exceptions noted.
We have previously invited the Engineer and the Employer to our office to view the relevant sheet of
our
Budget, which reflects the items and amounts contained in E&Y's "Schedule of Mark-Up Calculation"; in
the alternative a discussion with E&Y and ourselves.

We trust that the above will be sufficient to demonstrate the mark-up included in the rates and prices
within the Contract Price for Works excluding Provisional Sums and that all Variations 'on hold pending
agreement of the mark-up can now be settled with an 11.11% mark-up on cost .
Yours faithfully,
