Subject: Contractor Claim for Adjustment of Contract Price -Claim No 496 Omission of Value Engineering
Items STRUC-02 and STRUC-09
We refer to RFVO's reference (01) and {02) issued to you for the adjustment of the Contract Price due to
the insufficiency of value engineering undertaken by the Employer to achieve the saving associated with
the following Value Engineering Items (VEl), respectively:
• Replace curved plate girders with trusses (STRUCT-02); and
• Replace the curved plate secondary girders by trusses (STRUCT-09).
It is a factual and undisputed fact that IFC Drawings issued for the implementation of VEl's STRUC-02
and
STRUC-09 did not incorporate the intended scope of the respective VEl documents as set out in
Schedule
24 and Schedule 6 of the Contract. As a result, the Employer materially failed to realize the accepted
savings included in the Contract Price for which the Contractor now seeks to recover payment for the
original Works as set out in the Contract.
• From a VEl Bill of Quantities point of view, the value of relevant Works is expressed by the "omit"
value of the original Works and the "add" value of the VEl Works, the net result being the value of VEl
savings included in the Contract Price. The VEl values were expressly established in this
manner to indicate the 'provisional' nature of these values and allow for their reversal or readjustment
according to Employer responsibility outcomes.
• From a VEl Contract compliance point of view, the Engineer is required to issue IFC Drawings
adopting VEl's. To the extent that an IFC Drawing falls short or omits the implementation of the
intended VEl scope, such shortfall or omission constitutes a Variation. ·
• From a discrepancy I inconsistency between Contract documents point of view, IFC Drawings that
do not conform to the VEl documents require the Engineer to resolve the discrepancies I
inconsistencies between the IFC documents and VEl documents. A resolution which does not

conform to the order of precedence of a VEl document over a Drawing would constitute a
Variation.
In the event the Engineer were to give precedence to IFC Drawings at the expense of a higher priority
VEl
document (being opposite to the Contract document order of precedence), this would be a Variation.
Refer to Conditions of Contract (CoC) clauses 9.6.1 and 9.6.2 that state, inter alia, " ... the resolution of
any
such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in or between the documents referred to in clause
9.6.1
above shall not be construed as a Variation, provided the Engineer shall resolve such inconsistency,
ambiguity and/or discrepancy by deferring to the order of precedence set out above ... "
Therefore, an instruction issued pursuant the Contract which constitutes a Variation should be
confirmed
by a Variation Order in accordance with the right to vary provisions of Contract and recorded in a Time
Cost/Record for the adjustment of the Contract Price and Time for Completion.
Although the Engineer agreed that the matter should be resolved by means of a Variation Order, the
Engineer has unjustifiably prevaricated on the matter resulting in the withholding of payment for Works
already completed. This whilst continuing to indefinitely delay the issuance of a straight forward
Variation
Order; particularly in light of the queries raised in Engineer's letter ref. (02).
The Contractor hereby provides the Engineer with notice of claim pursuant to clause 27.1 for the
adjustment of the Contract Price arising from non-compliant Drawings issued by the Engineer pursuant
to
CoC clause 9.10 for Construction purposes (IFC Drawings).
Find below the relevant facts and circumstances in the context of each Party's rights and obligations
under
the Contract.
1. Relevant Facts and Circumstances of Value Engineering Items STRUCT 02 and 09
During the period immediately following the signature of the Contract in which the Employer was
purportedly engaged with the design Consultant to adopt the agreed VEl's for the purpose of
incorporating the necessary changes and issuing IFC Drawings, the Contractor became concerned that
no
discussions or queries were being raised in connection with the VEl implementation. This prompted the
Contractor to seek visibility into design changes for which AED 1 billion savings had been included in the
Contract. Please refer to query seeking visibility into the process issued to ADAC (acting as the Engineer
at
the time) ref. (21) above. No reply was received to the aforementioned letter.
Specifically the Contractor was concerned for:
• deviations and variance that could result in negative commercial impacts from false savings being
taken without corresponding VEl's being implemented;
• delays in the delivery of such significant amount of change in the short time frame allowed in
Schedule 15 for the completion of VEl design effort; and

• potential abortive Works arising from IFC Drawings issued without the implemented VEl's.
Refer to letter from ADAC ref. (20) above wherein the Employer "Issued for Construction" documents
were issued without any Value Engineering changes. The performance principle that a failure to
implement VEl's has commercial consequences was
acknowledged by the Employer as recorded in AECOM minutes ref. (19) and other minutes for various
other VEl's such as minutes ref. (17) above.
The lack of VEl design implementation progress and the omission of VEl's STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 was
recorded in Contractor letter ref. (18), in which the Engineer was notified that an analysis of the
proposed
VEl tri-chord structural steel truss by the Employer's structural engineering consultant could not be
adopteq.
The aforementioned letter indicated "that the value engineering savings intended will not be achieved"
and reported further that the "remit of the current {ARUP} design exercise excludes the arches and
backstays which limit the full potential of the [VEl} savings". Although we requested "that the Engineer
investigate fully the potential of increasing the structural depth I zone to accommodate the tri-chord
truss
solution and realising the savings anticipated by the VE," we point out that no reply was offered by the
Engineer in response to letter ref. (18) or the requests contained therein.
Further to the notice in Contractor's letter ref. (18), the Engineer issued minutes ref. (16) confirming the
Employer's agreement with the Employer's Consultants to abandon VEl STRUC-02 and STRUC-09.
To avoid the potential for fu rther simulations to the contrary, it is well understood by the Parties as well
as the Engineer that having accepted the VEl's on a fixed price basis, the Employer was obliged to
implement the VEl's by adopting, incorporating and integrating these items within the overall design and
to deliver "Issued for Construction" documents strictly according to the intents and representations set
out in the VEl scope of Works.
The Engineer and the Employer fully recognized and understood that the abandonment of a VEl design
implementation was an Employer responsibility and that such action would jeopardize the Employer's
right to the accepted cost saving considerations. The Contractor offered that to the extent a VEl cannot
be adopted, the un-adapted portion of a VEl (or in the case of VEl STRUC-02/09 alternative designs)
would constitute a Variation. The un-implemented (omitted) VEl would be adjusted by means of a
Variation Order according to the revised (or omitted) VEl scope as represented the final IFC Drawings)
which would be used to re-evaluate the VEl value and adjust Contract Price accordingly.
To clarify and avoid any misunderstandings regarding the Employer's VEl obligations and to avoid the
potential for disputes, the Contractor proposed a contractual mechanism to accommodate for variances
in
the Employer's VEl design delivery and the necessary adjustments to the VEl savings. These principles
were put forth in Contractor letter ref. (13) above, and were implicitly understood and agreed by the
Engineer in confirmation letter ref. (15).
Despite the structural engineer's unequivocal position regarding the viability of VEis STRUC-2 and
STRUC09 and the Employer's agreement as established in references (18) and (16), Engineer's Transmittal ref.

(14) issued to provide a status of the Employer's progress to "CLOSE OUT" VEl's continued to
ambiguously
indicate the status of VEl STRUC-02 and STRUCT-09 as "OPEN" (as opposed to "CLOSED").
The Contractor subsequently notified the Engineer in letter ref. (11) that the Contractor will not proceed
with any further alternative Structural Steel proposals (many which were initiated at the Contractor's
cost
in an attempt to make up for the Employer's short fall in realizing the VEl savings) due to the diminishing
returns and like delays to the progress of the Works.
Considering the short time period (within 120 day from the Commencement Date) in which the
Employer
VEl deliverables were be completed (i.e. 22 December 2012), no information regarding the VEl design
implementation plan, progress or results of the Employer initiatives were provided. The Contractor
received sporadic Bulletins indicating changes to previously issued IFC Drawings. Neither the Engineer
nor the Employer offered any guidance, explanation or rationale regarding the details of the VEl
implementation despite having requested visibility into the process. As a result the Contractor issued
letter ref. (10) to clarify in sufficient detail the level of completion of each
VEl. The Contractor provided a matrix identifying the Drawings and Specifications by cross-referencing
to
VEl no. and requested the Engineer to confirm accuracy and if such documents constituted all the
relevant
documents associated with each VEl. It is important to note that no reply was given to Contractor letter
reference (10) above.
At the time the Engineer had issued Bulletin 6 in transmittal ref. (12) which contained only seven (7)
revised lfC Drawings (out of an anticipated 53) indicating modifications associated with VEl STRUC
02/09.
Although we never received any confirmation to the contrary, no further advice or instruction was
issued
by Engineer to indicate the conclusion of, or finalization of VEl STRUC-02 or STRUC-09.
This state of affairs continued until the Contractor re-opened discussion to close out open VEl actions via
letter ref. (09) above, wherein we provided a Value Engineer Status Log which classified the
implementation of each Contract VEl as "YES", "MAYBE" or "No" according to IFC documents received at
the time. The Contractor classified STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 both as "NO"; meaning not implemented
with the remark "The VEl is being reviewed" to re-evaluate the VEl values.
The Engineer initially responded in letter ref. (06) by acknowledging receipt and confirming the total
value
of the VEl savings of AED 1,011,413,937.04 included in (i.e. forms part of) the Contract Price.
In accordance with the obligations establish in the Contract and the principles in the aforementioned
correspondence we set out to close out VEl STRUC-02 and STRUC-09 by re-evaluating the VEl savings
according to the values actually rea lized in the relevant IFC Structural Drawings. These were submitted
as
Requests for Variation Order (RFVO) No. 500 and 401, ref. (08) and (07), respectively:
• RFV0-500 requested an adjustment in the Contract Price equal to full VEl value (AED

48,620,160.00) for non-implementation of STRUCT-02 ; and
• RFV0-401 requested an adjustment in the Contract Price equal to (AED 49,630,882.99) for partial
implementation of STRUCT-09.
Although the Engineer took an unreasonably period of time to review to evaluate the VEl STRUC-02 and
STRUC-09 RFVOs, the review by the Engineer appeared to reach the conclusion that a Variation Order
would be issued, but for the assessment of the revised va lue of the partial savings with respect to
VEISTRUC09.
The Contractor offered savings based on reductions in structural steel weight by calculating the
difference
between the original Drawings and IFC Drawings issued during the course of the Contract and the
contract
unit rate whereby the RFVO value proposed stood at AED 49,630,907.00.
However, the Engineer's assessment indicated that the VEl is not a Variation and the VEl quantities are
the
Contractor's responsibility. In addition, the Engineer further alleged that using the weight as a measure
for evaluating the Variation Order removes the risk of the accuracy of the BOQ quantities (based on
weight of steel). The Engineer proposed that the value of VEl should be assessed according to a
percentage of steel modified and projecting the ratio to total amount of the intended VEl savings. The
Engineer's method derived a RFVO value of AED 46,675,371.60.
The Contractor did not accept the Engineer's interpretation or method for the reassessment of the
realized VEl value and notified the Engineer accordingly in letter ref. (OS) above, which also provides
details of the above Engineer's assessment.
The Contractor maintained that in order to achieve the savings contemplated in VEl STRUC-09 (and
STRUC-02), the redesign of the structural steel components would have to achieve the net reductions
set
out in VEl definition. The Engineer's assessment that the net savings may be expressed in terms of a
percentage of the component structure by using a notional multiplier of net savings as if it were a
standalone
lump sum item of non-VEl Works (which it is not) is not consistent with the intents under the
Contract or the agreed Engineer principles for the managing VEl changes. The Engineer subsequently
followed through with letter ref. (04) above which provided the Engineer's
status of each VEl in a parallel but separate classification. Wherein, the Engineer classified both STRUC02
and STRUC-09 as "MAYBE" without any further explanation. It is worth noting that the Engineer advised
in letter ref. (04) "where there is a difference between our respective statuses we have included a
commentary ... explaining why we consider a VEl has been achieved."
On 14 February 2016 the Contractor provide Notice of Likely Delay ref. (1) warning the Engineer
regarding
the consequences of the protracted failure to agree a legitimate request for a Variation Orders. in
respect
of RFV0-500 (STRUCT-02) and RFV0-401 (STRUCT-09) : The Engineer was warned that the failure to

refund the Contractor's monies has impacted the Contractor's (primarily the Central Processor
Structural
Steel Subcontractor) cash flow and in turn the Contractor's Structural Steel Progress (the effects of
which
have already resulted in real delays).
On 6 April 2016 Engineer letter ref. (02) sought answers to a list of investigative questions regarding the
Contractor's RFV0-500 (STRUCT-02) and RFV0-401 (STRUCT-09). We noted that most of the Engineer's
questions appear to be deliberately ambiguous and in certain instances disingenuously contrived.
Particularly since the Engineer has agreed to the Variations as a means for resolving VEl discrepancies
and
for having previously issued Variation Orders for the express purpose of re-evaluating and adjusting the
Contract Price for similar VEl issues.
We consider that the Engineer ought to be fully aware of each Party's rights and obligations in respect of
any VEl since the Engineer was appointed on 16 August 2012; presumably steeped in the history of the
MTB Contract, and having been party to confirming fundamental principles regarding the administration
of VEl variations, which the Engineer confirmed to the Contractor in writing on 21 November 2012 in ref.
(13) as follows:
"We refer to your Jetter ref MTB/TCA/AECOM/U000093 dated 4 November 2012 in respect of
the implementation of Value Engineering items.
We note your concern that the final "Issued for Construction" drawings may differ from the
agreed Value Engineering items and we confirm that should these differences be direct
omissions or major alterations then a Variation Order will be considered."
Notwithstanding, the Engineer's potential ignorance of the relevant facts and circumstances the
Contractor acting in good faith offered answers in letter ref. (01) (erroneously dated 20 April 2014,
should
be 2016), with reservation that such were provided without prejudice to the Contractor's rights and
entitlement under the Contract and at Law.
The section below sets out the terms and condition of the Contract which entitle the Contractor to an
adjustment of the Contract Price as requested in RFV0-500 and RFV0-401 as a result of the Employer's
omission of Value Engineering Items STRUC-02 and STRUCT-09, respectively.
2. Basis for Entitlement to a Variation
Further to Contractor letters ref. (01) and (03) we wish to add the following:
For clarity and technical correctness, "Accepted Value Engineering item" is not a defined Contract term.
Therefore, notwithstanding several occurrences of such terms as 'Accepted Value Engineering item' or
'Accepted Value Engineering Items', all such instances mean "Value Engineering Items" as defined in the
Contract:
"Value Engineering Items means the items so described and set out in Schedule 24 (Provisional
Value Engineering Items and Value Engineering Items), which shall be holistically explanatory
along with Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities);" (emphasis added). The word "accepted" is a redundant
descriptor used to differentiate from the Provisional Value
Engineering Items that were also cited in Schedule 24 and Schedule 6, but were not included or forming
part of Contract Price.

It is worth emphasising that all the value engineering items in schedule 24, whether those included in
the
Contract Price or not, were all selected by the Employer from a larger group of pre-contract value
engineering initiatives. The Employer was the sole party responsible for selecting and accepting
~ontractor proposals anq for ultimately including those selected ones in ~he Contract Price.
The important distinctions between the "accepted" Value Engineering Items (or VEl 's) and any other
part
of the Works is that the VEis are set out in both of Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 to mutually and
harmoniously establish the intended scope of the Works. It should be apparent that the VEl's were
undeveloped designs by virtue of not being incorporated into the Drawings and Specification.
The definition cited above is intended to rightfully protect the rights of both Parties due to the nature of
Works which at the time of execution of the Contract had not yet been developed and incorporated in
to
the Drawings and Specification. It was set forth by the Employer in order to conclude the Contract award
in advance of undertaking the necessary Drawings and Specification changes to give effect to the
precontract
VEl proposals.
In this manner the Employer accepted the Contractor proposal and committed to implement the VEl's
post Contract. As such the fulfilment of VEl implementation obligation was and remains solely at the
Employer's risk. The Employer's obligations to adopt and implement the VEl's are set out in CoC clause
9.7.1 (as per added emphasis below):
"9.7.1 The Contractor shall be deemed to have scrutinised, prior to the Effective Date, the
Specification Drawings and all of other relevant parts of the Contract and shall be
responsible for identifying and carrying out any further design necessary to allow the
proper execution and completion of the Works. For the avoidance of doubt, the design
of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items shall be the
responsibility of the Employer." (emphasis added)
The time table of the Employer's obligation to develop the design and details of such Value Engineering
Item and to issue corresponding "Issued for Construction" Drawings and/or Specifications is set out in
CoC
clause 9.10.1 and 9.10.2
"9.10.1 The Specification and Drawing Release Schedule1 (including any Value Engineering
Items) sets out the dates that the Engineer shall release drawings and/or
specifications for use by the Contractor for construction purposes." (emphasis added)
"9.10.2 The Contractor acknowledges and agrees that the Time for Completion and the
Contract Price are inclusive of all Value Engineering Items. Provided the obligations
under clause 9.10.1 are fulfilled on or before the dates set out in the Specification and
Drawing Release Schedule (but subject to compliance by the Contractor with clause
9.10.3 below) the Contractor shall not be entitled to any extension of the Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or an adjustment to the Contract Price in
relation to Value Engineering Items. For the avoidance of doubt Value Engineering
Items shall not be construed as Variations." (emphasis added)

It is worth pointing out that members of the Engineer's team have incorrectly implied that the last
sentence above is grounds for denying the Contractor a Variation. It should be equally clear now, as it
was
at the time the Contract that, "Value Engineering Items" in CoC clause 9.10.3 is in reference to those set
out in CoC 9.10.1, which the Engineer was purportedly required to issue as IFC's i.e. "for construction
purposes".
To resolve the deliberate and obvious conflicts, discrepancies and inconsistencies between the VEl's on
one hand, and the original Contract Drawings and Specification, on the other, and to ensure the
overriding
intents of the VEl scope of Works (as should be delivered by the Engineer pursuant to 9.10.1}, over
those
represented in the original Contract Drawings and Specification, the Parties agreed the Contract
documents order of precedence set out in CoC clause 9.6.1 as follows:
"9.6.1 The documents forming the Contract are to be taken as mutually explanatory of one
another. For the purposes of interpretation, in the event of any inconsistency,
ambiguity or discrepancy between any two (2) or more documents, the documents
shall take precedence in the following order:
(a) Schedule 1 (Contract Particulars);
(b) these Conditions of Contract;
(c) Schedule 11 (Payment Terms);
(d) Value Engineering Items;
(e) Supplemental Clarifications;
(f) Tender Bulletins;
(g) Schedule 12 {Specification);
(h) Schedule 17 (Drawings);
(i) Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities) (excluding the quantities which are for information
only); and
(j) the other Schedules and any other documents forming part of the Contract."
(emphasis added}
"9.6.2 The Contractor shall immediately notify the Engineer in writing if it finds any
inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy in any of the documents referred to in
clause 9.6.1 or between any of the documents referred to in clause 9.6.1 and the
Engineer shall issue any clarification and/or instruction necessary to resolve such
inconsistency, ambiguity and/or discrepancy. The Contractor shall not be entitled to
any extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or an
adjustment to the Contract Price as a consequence of such clarification or instruction.
For the avoidance of doubt, the resolution of any such inconsistency, ambiguity and/or
discrepancy in or between the documents referred to in clause 9.6.1 above shall not be
construed as a Variation, provided the Engineer shall resolve such inconsistency,
ambiguity and/or discrepancy by deferring to the order of precedence set out above
unless such interpretation would result in an unreasonable or manifestly absurd result."
(emphasis added}

The Contract documents order of precedence intended to ensure the supremacy of VEl scope Works and
the corresponding consideration for the same, by setting out the Value Engineering Items above all of
other documents including the Specification (Schedule 12} and the Drawings (Schedule 17).
Whereas, the Contract definition of Value Engineering Items was meticulously and deliberately set out
to
mutually and harmoniously define the VEl by the VEl schematic documents (in Schedule 24) as well as
the
VEl and quantities in VEl BOQ documents (Schedule 6}.
By referring to CoC clause 9.6.1 (d), the Engineer should be fully aware that no Schedule number is
associated with "Value Engineering Items" on line (d) (as compared to the other Contract documents
listed therein}, which is also relevant to the Engineer's obligations under CoC clause 9.10 for Drawings
and
Instructions. These provisions of the Contract are fundamental terms and conditions of the Contract
For the avoidance of any doubts, the parts of the Provisional Value Engineering Items and Value
Engineering Items (Schedule 24} document, together with the parts of the Bill of Quantities (Schedule 6)
that set out VEl Works are elevated to level 'd' in CoC clause 9.6.1, notwithstanding that the Schedule 6
and Schedule 24 are set at lower levels of precedence 'h' and 'i', respectively.
De·spite the unstudied conceptual nature of the Structural Steel VEl, STRUC-02 and 09 set out finite
values
based on the Contract defined units of measure for the savings element, i.e. tons of structural steel.
Where in, both Parties understood and agreed that in order to realize the va lue of such VEl concepts
the
Employer is required to develop such concepts in order to realize (or equally meaningful "preserve") the
VEl values included in the Contract Price.
By setting about to execute the Contract on a fixed price basis before implementing the VE l design, the
Employer knowingly accepted the responsibility for the VEl outcomes and the risks associated with
achieving the VEl savings. The Engineer and the Employer always understood their responsibility to
deliver
IFC Drawings for which the Employer accepted the associated design liabilities.
As such the Employer shall always remain responsible for the outcome of VEl design, including any
variances from the quantum of savings. Notwithstanding any reversals to the contrary, the Engineer
acknowledged and confirmed that with VEl quantum variances constituted Variations. The Engineer is
fully aware that such variances are driven by the reliability of the original concepts and efficacy and/or
viability ofthe Employer's VEl design.
For clarity regarding what may be deemed a Drawing under the Contract, CoC clause 1.1 provides the
following:
"Drawings means the drawings of the Works set out in Schedule 17 (Drawings), and any
additional and modified drawings issued by (or on behalf of) the Employer in accordance with
the Contract;"
Moreover, CoC Clause 21.2 expressly allows for the Adjustment of the Contract Prices as follows:
"21 .2.1 The Contract Price shall only be adjusted in the specific circumstances and by the
specific amounts expressly provided for in:

(a) clause 9.10 (Drawings or Instructions);
(b) ....
If the Contractor incurs any Cost as a result of any of the matters set out above the
Contractor shalf give notice to the Engineer and shall be entitled subject to clause 27.1
{Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which shall be added to the Contract
Price.
After receiving the notice set out above the Engineer shall proceed in accordance with
clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or determine the matters contained in such
notice.
Where any entitlement under this provision originates from any failure by the
Employer and that failure was caused by any error or delay by the Contractor,
including an error in or delay in the submission of any of the Contractor's Documents,
the Contractor shall not be entitled to any cost whatsoever." (emphasis added)
Kindly be advised that the provisions of CoC 21.2.1 expressly provide for the Contractor's entitlement to
Contract Price adjustment due to circumstances arising from the performance of the Employer
obligations under CoC clause 9.10 in accordance with the order of precedence set out in CoC clause
9.6.1. The Engineer is notified that the provisions of CoC Clause 27.1.5 (c) are deemed to have been fully
complied with by referring to the Contractor's final particulars established in Contractor's RFV0-401 ref.
(07) dated 30 April 2015 and RFV0-500 dated 11 April 2015 for the adjustment to the Contract Price.
Having taken more than 411 days to review, assess, consider and interrogate the Contractor's request
for
Variation Orders according to the agreed principles under the Contract, the Contractor considers that
information and requirements of CoC clause 27.1.5 and 27.1.6 have been satisfied.
This notice of claim is issued by the Contractor for the purpose of satisfying CoC 21.2.1 and 27.1 in order
to invoke the Contractor's right to:
a) The release of payment for parts of VEl Works where Value Engineering has not been achieved,
pursuant the Employer's obligations to under CoC 27.1.7 and 21.2.1, which respectively provide:
and
"Each interim payment shall include amounts for any claims that have been reasonably
substantiated as due under the relevant provision of the Contract;" (CoC 27.1.7) and
"If the Contractor incurs any Cost as a result of any of the matters set out above [(a) clause
9.10 (Drawings or Instructions)] the Contractor shall give notice to the Engineer and shall be
entitled subject to clause 27.1 {Contractors Claims) to payment of any Cost, which shall be
added to the Contract Price." (CoC 21.2.1),
b) An Engineer's determination for the adjustment to be made to the Contract Price as required
pursuant to 27.1.8 (b) and 21.2.1, which respectively provide:
"The Engineer shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or
determine: the additional payment and adjustment to the Contract Price (if any) to which
the Contractor is entitled under the Contract." (CoC 27.1.8 (b)), and
"After receiving the notice set out above the Engineer shall proceed in accordance with
clause 11.4 (Determinations) to agree or determine the matters contained in such notice.
(CoC 21.2.1)

We respectfully request the Engineer to consider the facts and circumstances as well as the rights and
obligations of the Parties under the Contract for the purpose of making a fair determination strictly in
accordance with CoC clause 11.4.
For avoidance of doubt this claim is related to the reversal of Value Engineering Savings only as set out
in
Requests for Variation Orders nos. 500 and 401 ref. (07) and (08) due to the non-implementation of the
VEl Works and resultant execution of the original Works. It does not include any consideration for delays
nor any Extension of Time, prolongation costs or other damages arising from the execution of the
original
Works and I or non-payment of the completed Works; as notified in letter ref. (03), the effects of which
are ongoing and for which we expressly reserve our rights.
Yours faithfully,
