Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0165
Delays due to Damages to Fire Protection Sprinklers at CP Level L3.0 – L3.1 Sector 5.14B Escalator
caused by the Employer’s Fit-Out Contractor (DEPA) - Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation
Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays attributable to damage caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA) to
previously installed Fire Protection Sprinklers at CP Level L3.0 – L3.1 Sector 5.14B Escalator, which
requires rectification and as such requires an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in
order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 2 October 2019 we received letter reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/05590, dated 22 September 2019,
from the Mechanical Works subcontractor (M/s PCE JV), enclosing a letter from their subcontractor,
NAFFCO dated 14 September 2019, notifying us of additional “time implications” and “associated
additional costs” due to damage caused by the Employer’s Fit-Out Contractor (M/s DEPA) to their
previously installed Fire Protection Sprinklers at CP Level L3.0 – L3.1 Sector 5.14B Escalator.
Despite the sprinklers having been installed, inspected and handed over vide the WIR process, PCE JV /
NAFFCO advised that the damage occurred while DEPA was dismantling their pipes at CP L3.0 North
Lounge. A copy of PCE JV’s ‘Notification’ and accompanying letter from NAFFCO [attaching a series of
photographs evidencing the damage to the previously installed sprinklers] is attached for reference.
In view of the above and the content of the attached letter, it is evidently clear that the events and
circumstances cited herein are not of our doing or responsibility, and any rectification / remedial works
necessarily required to re-install and re-test the damaged sprinklers will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you that in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged
sprinklers noted above, we will require a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid
down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.

Furthermore, we request you to take necessary action to prevent any further occurrence of damages to
our previously handed-over MEP services installation by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
