Subject: Failure to proceed with the works
Dear Sir
We refer to the Commercial Meeting held at our Office on Thursday 09 November 2017 and in particular
to your apparent refusal to proceed with the additional works that we have instructed you to implement

(by way of Variation Order Nr. 16) pending agreement upon the related adjustment to the Subcontract
Price.
In this regard it was noted in the Meeting that whilst the adjustment to the Subcontract Price was
previously agreed via [document reference dated] in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85, you now assert
that subsequent events for which you say we are contractually liable, entitle you to a further adjustment
of the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 3,197,094.21 (an increase in the order of approximately
47% over the amount agreed).
Our position is as follows:
(i)
we are entitled at any time prior to the issue of the Performance Certificate to issue instructions
requiring the implementation of Variations with immediate effect [Sub-Clause 20.1.1 of the General
Conditions of Subcontract];
(ii)
we have (pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.2) issued Variation Order Nr. 16 dated [date] instructing
the Variation;
(iii)
you are obliged) to comply with and give immediate effect to all Variations instructed or
confirmed in writing by the Contractor by way of formal Variation Order [Sub-Clause 20.1.3]
(iv)
we are obliged to proceed to agree or determine any adjustment to the Subcontract Price by
reason of the Variation [Sub-Clause 20.3.2];
(v)
Until such time as an appropriate rate or price is agreed or determined, the Contractor shall
determine a provisional rate or price for the purposes of interim payments under Schedule 11 (Payment
Terms).
For the avoidance of any doubt, we consider that:
(a)
we have complied with all of our obligations relating to Variation Order Nr. 16, including
agreement of the adjustment to the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 in respect of
all events occurring up to and including [date of the agreement]; and
(b)
your failure to implement and give immediate effect to Variation Order Nr. 16 puts you in
breach of the Subcontract and renders you liable for any and all damages arising therefrom.
If you consider that you are entitled to further adjustment to the Subcontract Price due to events
occurring after [date of the agreement] then subject to you following the procedure set down in the
Subcontract for Subcontractor’s Claims, we shall agree or determine any further adjustment accordingly.
In the interim, we urge you to address your breach of the Subcontract by implementing Variation Order
Nr. 16 forthwith.
Subject Removal and Replacement of the Subcontractors Representative
Dear Sir;

We refer to our letter ref {2) dated 25th Sept 2017 which is written as a response to your letter Ref {1)
dated 13th Sept
2017 regarding removal and replacement of the Subcontractors representative and update its content
with the
reference to your allegations with the followings;
We once again would like to repeat that our disagreement to your allegations had been discussed in the
principle meeting held on 23rd Aug 2017 and agreed by your principles to provide necessary proofs,
justifications,
substantiation for all those allegations. However we have not seen any detail, reference and/or any
project criteria
being the ground of your following allegations except some email correspondences for the first item.
Obstructive actions/behaviors that hinders the Progress of the Contract Works
The list of Project Activities/Objectives hindered due to such actions/behaviors
The list of Contractor's instructions that the Subcontractor has shown excessive reluctance
Particular cases and its consequences where the Subcontractor has failed to comply with its
contractual obligations as a result of the above
The cases in those emails have been properly responded within the content of our letter dated 25th Sep
2017 and the
subjects are all timely acted and resolved without causing any disturbance to site progresses. On the
other hand we
pursue our contractual rights for all those cases where we incur additional costs and loses through our
variation
submissions and kindly request your assistance for the early determination with sufficient
compensation.
In conclusion once again;
Day to day email communications are utilised as obstructive behaviour whereas it is the requirement
of Sub-Contract Clause 12.11.3 {Cooperation) to report any defects or non-conformities to the
Contractor in good and sufficient time to enable the Contractor to procure the rectification of such
works without causing any delay or disruption to the Subcontractor.
12.11.2 If any part or parts of the Subcontract Works are dependent for their support or execution upon
work
being carried out by any Other Contractors or Other Subcontractors, the Subcontractor shall either
monitor
the carrying out of such work or inspect such work and report any defects or non-conformities to the
Contractor
v in good and sufficient time to enable the Contractor to procure the rectification of such works without
causing disruption to the subcontractor. Those communications are escalated to a level of dispute
creating confusion in contractual,
commercial and technical issues rather than proper regard to the Sub-Contract provoking the
communicators
Contractor's improper representations in those communication not using reasonable endeavors such

as to convene formal meetings for amicable resolutions for such conflicts in accordance with
SubContract
Clause 10.2 (Contractor's Personnel)
10.2 Contractor's Personnel: The Contractor shall use reasonable endeavors to ensure that the
Employer's
Personnel, the Contractor's Personnel, the Consultants, Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors on
the Site:
a) cooperate with the Subcontractor under clause 12.11 (Cooperation); and
b) take actions similar to those which the Subcontractor is required to take under clauses 12.14.3(a) to
12.14.3(c), and under clause 12.24 (Protection of the Environment).
The Subcontractor has not objected to any of Contractor's instruction however have drawn the
Contractor's attention to the ambiguities and/or discrepancies that might jeopardize the performance of
the Subcontractor that eventually would have adverse effect on the project.
The Subcontractor do not accept to bear the consequences of such inappropriate and inconvenient
decisions of any of Contractor's Personal and/or Representatives instructing the Subcontractor to
undertake the obligations of other subcontractor involved in the Project enforced to carry out works out
of its scope defined under Sub-Contract. Therefore the Subcontractor record Contractor's breach of
SubContract Clause 9.20.1
9.20.1 Any amendments to the terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall only be effective if in
writing
and signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. Any amendments to the scope of the
Subcontract
Works shall be subject to the provisions of clause 20 (Variations and Adjustments).
Subcontractor Representative had only met with the Employer in meetings at where Contractor
requested his attendance together with Contractor Representatives. He has never met the Employer
bypassing the Contractor.
Once again the above is not the position of Anel's representative but its Anel's position itself and hold
the Contractor
culpable for all such inappropriate and inconvenient decisions, its failure to comply with the Subcontract
Clause 9.20.1
and Clause 10.2 (Contractor's Personnel) . The Subcontractor reserves its rights for all cost and losses
that might arise
due to its consequences in accordance with Sub-Contract Clauses 9.10.4, Clause 16.5 (Extension of
Subcontract Time
for Completion), Clause 21.2 (Adjustment to the Subcontract Price, Clause 24.3.1, Item (g) (Contractor's
Risks), Clause
27.1 (Subcontractor's Claim)
We hereby would draw your attention and record that our clarifications have not been responded by
your side till date
therefore your allegation are deemed to be totally refuted and closed.
Thanking you for your considerations

Subject: Variation Order No. 91 - Engineer's Instruction No. 196A -Beam Strengthening &
Retail Hold Areas
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Variation Order No. 91 under the letter referenced
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-08789 dated 09 January 2018.
We accept and agree to Variation Order No. 91. In accordance with the enclosed RFVO Assessment sign
off, supervisory cost have been excluded for resubmission/re-evaluation on the basis that the cost
associated with these people will be paid for in full via prolongation claim for the delayed period
associated with EOTl. Should the cost of the personnel that have carried out the supervision are not
recovered via the prolongation claim due to amendment to the agreed delays period, reallocation of the
delayed period, a reduction in the claimed costs associated for these staff or any other reason, we
reserve
the right to claim, in full, all supervision costs associated with this RFVO.
Following items are not included and shall be evaluated separately
Additional costs associated with engineering, contract administration, project administration and site
supervision for the changes;
Any costs associated with disruption, acceleration or price escalation;
Accordingly, and as requested, we hereby return the signed originals of the attached Variation Order.
Once both Originals are signed by all parties, please provide one original to us for our records.
Yours faithfully,
