
Subject: The Contractor's Presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' dated 18 January 2017
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes with reference to the receipt on 31 January 2017, of the Engineer's letter dated
30
January 2017 (reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737), regarding the Contractor's Presentation of
'Concurrent Delay' made to the Employer and the Engineer on 18 January 2017.
Prior to addressing the issues raised therein, the Contractor wishes to reiterate its position in relation to
the purported requirement to assess any concurrent delay under the Heads of Agreement.
Point 3 of the Heads of Agreement expressly states that the Employer "agrees to reimburse the
Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions of Time" [emphasis added], thereby unequivocally

negating any requirement to establish any concurrent delay for the period up to 5 March 2015.
Nevertheless, the presentation by the Contractor of the Contractor's concurrent delay conclusion and
subsequent presentation on its concurrent delay assessment methodology was done so purely out of
courtesy to the Employer following a direct request by the Employer for the Contractor to do so.
With this in mind, the Contractor was anticipating providing such presentation to representatives of the
Employer only, and was not anticipating the attendance of the Engineer. It transpired that the Engineer
was invited to attend by the Employer but the Contractor was given to understand that such attendance
was to be in an observational capacity only. Hence it is with great surprise and disappointment to find
that the Engineer has chosen to enter into correspondence on this matter.
Furthermore, whilst the Contractor was only too willing to provide both the Employer and Engineer a
detailed presentation on the methodology adopted to assess the concurrent delay, at a subsequent
meeting arranged on 19 January 2017, the Engineer was afforded the same opportunity to present a
similar detailed presentation regarding its own methodology adopted to assess the concurrent delay.
In the event however, the Engineer's 'presentation' was limited to providing a very simplistic overview
of
the methods adopted by him to assess the Contractor's concurrent delay, and when pressed further by
the Employer to present this assessment in more detail, the Engineer refused. ·
Notwithstanding this, the Contractor herewith provides the following detailed response to each point
raised by the Engineer in his letter dated 30January 2017 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737):
The second paragraph of the Engineer's letter states:
"The Contractor's Time Impact Analysis (TIA} Methodology outlined at the meeting is not accepted by
the Engineer'
With reference to the above statement, the Contractor responds as follows:
It is unclear the context in which the Engineer makes reference to 'Time Impact Analysis (TIA)
Methodology'. The presentation provided by the Contractor on 18 January 2017 addressed only the
methodology adopted to assess concurrent delay and NO reference was made in the presentation to
any Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology.
Furthermore, reference within the Contract Documents to a TIA is done so only in relation to the
establishment of an Extension of Time, and whilst the Contract Documents do state the requirement
for the Contractor to demonstrate the existence, or otherwise, of concurrent delays that are the
responsibility of the Contractor, the Contract Documents do not define the methodology which should
be adopted for such an assessment, or how such an assessment should be presented.
As such, the Engineer's reference to 'Time Impact Analysis (TIA) Methodology' is not a true and
accurate record of the Contractor's presentation as, for the reasons stated above, no reference was
made to the TIA methodology within the presentation given by the Contractor.
Under Item (a) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor's Methodology is unnecessarily complicated compared to the traditional and widely
recognized Window analysis technique and it does not conform to any recognized method of delay
analysis by any practice such as the SCL or AACE International."
The Contractor responds to Item (a) as follows:
The Contractor does not agree that the methodology adopted is 'unnecessarily complicated'. In fact,
the methodology has been presented to others who found the methodology easy to follow and easily

understandable. The fact the method seems complicated is a direct consequence of the complex
nature of the Project, the approved Clause 16.3 Contract Programme and magnitude of change
instructed by the Engineer, which continues to this date.
In addition, at no stage of the presentation or subsequent discussions between the Contractor,
Employer and the Engineer, was the topic of the SCL Protocol or the AACE International raised. As
such, any reference to such documents in the Engineer's letter does not represent a true and accurate
record of the Contractor's presentation.
However, during the subsequent discussions between the Contractor, Employer and the Engineer, the
Contractor was asked if the methodology presented had been used successfully on other projects. The
Contractor stated that the same methodology had been used successfully on a number of major
projects such as the new Doha International Airport, the Dubai Mall, and recently on the Dubai Parks
and Resort development in Dubai.
With reference to the 'Window analysis technique' raised in the Engineer's statement, the Contractor
accepts it is one of a number of recognised delay analysis techniques, but is generally a prospective
form of delay analysis used to establish extensions of time by contractor's, and is not the preferred
method of delay analysis defined within the Contract Documents.
In relation to the AACE International Recommended Practice for Forensic Schedule Analysis, reference
is made within the document to the 'Identification and Quantification of Concurrent Delays', but the
document does not go on to define a specific method of analysis which should be adopted to identify
and quantify such concurrent delays. In fact, the document recommends the review of an 'As-built
Critical Path' to identify any concurrent delays.
By definition, an 'As-built Critical Path' can only be truly established once ALL works are complete. As
the Midfield Terminal Project remains on-going concern, no true 'As-built Critical Path' can be
established and, as such, the practice defined under the AACE International cannot be applied.
In relation to the SCL Protocol, whilst the Protocol outlines its position in relation to the impact of
concurrent delay on the assessment and award of extension of time and the recovery of any time
related costs, it also does not define a specific methodology to adopt for the identification and
quantification of any such concurrent delay.
Furthermore, neither the AACE International or the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal
Project.
Under Item (b) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"It was not made clear by the Contractor why it is necessary to extract the data from Primavera to MS
Excel and then to MS Access and then back to Primavera. Primavera is the approved programming
software and is capable of performing all the required analysis. It is the Engineer's opinion that this
chosen approach by the Contractor unnecessarily increases the risk of errors occurring and confuses
the analysis."
The Contractor responds to Item (b) as follows:
As with many statements made in the Engineer's letter, this statement is wholly inaccurate and, again,
does not represent a true and accurate record of the Contractor's presentation.
In fact, during the presentation the Contractor went to great length to explain the reasons why the

data was extracted from Primavera and analysed in MS Access.
Furthermore, at numerous stages throughout the Contractor's presentation, reference was made back
to the relevant Primavera programme activities to demonstrate that at any given stage, the data
analysis undertaken within MS Access was accurately modelling the data contained within the
corresponding Primavera analysis programme.
In the presentation, the Contractor also made reference to the numerous artificial constraints and the
use of numerous Project Calendars within the Primavera programmes which would, in fact, render any
data filtered and identified directly within the Primavera programmes in relation to delay (negative
float value) inaccurate.
Under Item (c) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has introduced new Milestones and Constraints to the baseline programme for the
CSP and Piers without the approval from the Engineer. Contractually this is non-compliant and
currently not accepted."
The Contractor responds to Item (c) as follows:
Under the Heads of Agreement signed on 5 March 2015, the Contractor had already been granted an
Extension of Time to 31 July 2017, a period of 310 calendar days.
As such, there was no reason to issue any supporting TIA submission pursuant to Clause 27 of the
Conditions of Contract.
As stated within the cover letter of the Contractor's Consolidated Submission dated 27 August 2015,
the submission was provided to assist in the successful conclusion of the financial negotiations in
relation to the Heads of Agreement, and was not a submission seeking an Extension of Time as this
was already awarded prior to the submission of the Contractor's Consolidated Submission dated 27
August 2015.
Subsequent to the signing of the Heads of Agreement, the Engineer issued numerous correspondence
defining the level of detailed substantiation required to assess the costs associated with the Heads of
Agreement.
In relation to time related costs, such as Prolongation and Acceleration I mitigation, the Engineer,
through a series of correspondence, requested such cost substantiation include the location where
the costs were actually allocated (CPA or Piers) be identified.
As such, to conform to the request of the Engineer, additional monitoring milestones for both the CPA
and Piers were added to the analysis programmes to assist in the cost substantiation and allocation.
Under Item (d) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has deleted many activities without the agreement and approval of the Engineer,
again this is contractually non-compliant and currently not accepted."
The Contractor responds to Item (d) as follows:
At no stage within the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' was any reference made to
deleting activities from the programme schedule. This is yet another failure of the Engineer to
accurately record the details of the presentation.
In fact, the Contractor explained that removing the data from the Primavera schedule and analysing
within MS Access allowed changes to be made to the data without affecting the integrity of the
submitted Primavera schedules for which limited 'undo' facilities are available when changes are
made to the programme schedule.

The Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' further went on the detail the process used to
identify certain activities which did not warrant further consideration with in the individual monthly
analysis periods that could be eliminated, not deleted, from the extensive list of programme activities
requiring further investigation within the individual monthly analysis periods to assess whether they
be Employer or Concurrent Contractor delays.
Under Item (e) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor has disregarded the Contractor delays that exist in and evidenced within the records of
correspondences I minutes of meetings etc."
The Contractor responds to Item (e) as follows:
During the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay' the Contractor went to great length to
explain that once a certain number of pre-defined criteria had eliminated activities from the extensive
listing of activities to review during each individual analysis period, the remaining activities were then
reviewed against the contemporaneous site documentation to establish liability for the individual
activity delay, thus establishing if the delay be Employer or Concurrent Contractor delays.
As stated during the Contractor's presentation the documents reviewed as part of the concurrency
assessment included, but were not limited to:
Correspondence between the Employer and Contractor;
Correspondence between the Engineer and Contractor;
Correspondence between Subcontractors and the Contractor;
Engineer's Instructions;
Engineer's Bulletins revising IFC Drawings;
Minutes of Meetings between various parties;
Requests for Information (RFI's)
Shop Drawing Submissions;
Material Submissions;
Method Statements;
Variation Orders;
Requests for Variation Orders;
NCR's;
Inspection Requests;
Contractor Instructions; and
Verbal Instructions.
As such, the Engineer's inference that the Contractor did not take cognizance of contemporaneous
site documentation is untrue and the statement made by the Engineer is not a true and accurate
record of the Contractor's presentation.
Under Item (f) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor stated "there are some concurrent delays" but failed to demonstrate how this was
calculated and did not provide an explanation why the concurrency analysis, which is required as part
of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized."
The Contractor responds to Item (f) as follows:
During the Contractor's presentation of 'Concurrent Delay', the Contractor went to great length to
explain the specific methodology used to establish the cause, and the extent of concurrent delays for

the month of April 2014.
Therefore, for the Engineer to state that the Contractor 'failed to demonstrate how this was
calculated' is a further demonstration of the inaccurate recording of the Contractor's presentation by
the Engineer.
The Engineer goes on to state in his letter that the Contractor 'did not provide an explanation why the
concurrency analysis, which is required as part of its TIA submissions, is not yet finalized."
It can only be assumed that the TIA submissions referenced by the Engineer relate to those
submissions issued by the Contractor in the period after the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
The Contractor's presentation and all the subsequent discussions related to the period up to the
signing of the Heads of Agreement, and there were no discussions in respect of the period subsequent
to the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
As such, the Contractor was neither requested to, nor provided, any explanation to the concurrency
analysis for those TIA submissions issued after the signing of the Heads of Agreement.
Under Item (g) of the Engineer's letter it states:
"The Contractor's independent third party expert appears to have simply agreed with the Contractor's
analysis and has not submitted an independent report on the matter of Concurrency"
The Contractor responds to Item (g) as follows:
The Contractor's independent third party expert is exactly that, independent.
The Engineer has not been privy to the numerous and lengthy discussions between the Contractor and
the independent third party expert, neither has the Engineer been privy to the numerous and lengthy
discussions between the independent third party expert and the Employer.
As such, the statement made by the Engineer is extremely un-professional and the Contractor
requests such a statement be formally withdrawn.
The Engineer's letter goes on to make reference to the Contractor's Consolidated Delay Analysis
Submission dated 27 August 2015, specifically paragraph 5.28 and 5.29, as follows:
"The results of the analysis for each delay event in each monthly delay analysis period are classified
into 3 categories. This will, the Contractor hopes assist the Engineer to reach a speedy determination of
the financial implications of the delays to section of the Work'~ [emphasis added] does not provide any
such assistance whatsoever to the Engineer due to the fact that the Contractor has failed to
demonstrate any 'culpable delay' or 'unallocated delay' as asserted, in its CDA submission."
The Contractor responds to the above as follows:
The extract provided by the Engineer is only an extract from paragraph 5.28.
In reality what the Contractor's Consolidated Delay Analysis Submission dated 27 August 2015
demonstrates, is that upon the conclusion of the analysis there were no critical 'culpable delays' or
critical 'unallocated delays'.
Furthermore, as the terms of the Heads of Agreement already grant an extension of time and does not
require any assessment of concurrency, then reference to any delay other than the dominant critical
delay is irrelevant.
With reference to the concluding paragraph of the Engineer's letter, the Contractor wishes to break the
Engineer's statement into individual elements and respond to each.
The Engineer opens the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"We trust this is a true and accurate record of the presentation"

The Contractor responds as follows:
The Contractor strongly rejects this statement.
It is clearly evident from the Contractor's responses herein that the information provided under the
Engineer's letter is far from a "true and accurate record of the presentation".
The Engineer continues the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"we note for record purposes that the new approach adopted by the Contractor in this presentation to
evidence the existence or not of any concurrent delays differs significantly from the previous approach
adopted in the previously submitted Consolidated Delay Analyses where no concurrent delays due to
the Contractor have been evidenced and is contrary to the current approach the Contractor has
presented in identifying areas/periods during the course of the Works where the Contractor was
culpable for some of the delays."
The Contractor responds as follows:
As previously stated, the Contractor's presentation was given out of courtesy at the request of the
Employer to provide the findings of an internal assessment of concurrent delay undertaken by the
Contractor in the event of any future dispute in relation to the Heads of Agreement.
Whist t he conclusions of the concurrency review and the methodology behind the concurrency review
have been presented to the Employer and Engineer, it is not the intention at this time to issue the
detailed report to either the Engineer or Employer for future comment.
The Contractor's previously stated position remains that point 3 of the Heads of Agreement clearly
states that the Employer "agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of extensions
of Time" [emphasis added], therefore, negating any requirement to establish any concurrent delay for
the period up to 5 March 2015.
As such, there was no need in the submission issued in support of the Heads of Agreement to provide
any form of concurrency analysis.
In relation to those TIA submissions issued for delays occurring after the signing of the Heads of
Agreement, the Contractor has demonstrated within the provided analysis programmes that there is
no further critical delay attributable to the Contractor's own progress of t he works.
This can be evidenced by comparing the Heads of Agreement Milestone Completion dates in the
'Progressed' analysis programme with the preceding 'Impacted' analysis programmes.
Furthermore, for clarity, in the '6th Post Heads of Agreement Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events
between 2 January 2016 and 1 April 2016' the Contractor states within the narrative that:
"in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements, Clause 1.3. 7, the Contractor
confirms no concurrent delays caused by the Contractor were identified within the delay
analysis"
Following the review of the Contractor's TIA submissions for delays occurring after the signing of the
Heads of Agreement by the independent third party expert, it has been suggested a more
comprehensive assessment of concurrent delay is required.
The Contractor intends to adopt the methodology presented to the Employer and Engineer to identify
and assess any concurrent delays for future TIA submissions.
The Engineer then continues the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"the Engineer welcomes the principle of admitting the Contractor own delays within the analysis which
is what is required under the Contract and as a pre-requisite before any compensation can be

finalized"
The Contractor further responds as follows:
The Contractor has never denied the existence of its own delays during the execution of the Project
works. However, as stated at the outset, on the basis of the previously reference point 3 of the Heads
of Agreement document, the existence, or otherwise, of any Contractor delay in the period up to the
signing of the Heads of Agreement is deemed irrelevant as 'full' time and costs have been granted
under the Heads of Agreement.
For those TIA submissions issued in support of delay events after the signing of the Heads of
Agreement, whilst the Contractor has identified sub-critical delays which may be attributed to the
Contractor, the Contract does not state that the identification of the 'Contractor's own' delays is a
pre-requisite, but the identification of any 'Concurrent Delay' caused by the Contractor is a prerequisite.
Therefore, such delays should meet the definition of 'Concurrent Delay' under the Contract
which defines 'Concurrent Delay' as:
"the occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event within clause
16.5.1{a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects of which are
felt at the same time" [emphasis added].
It is the Contractor's current position that any Contractor delay identified within the TIA's issued in
support of delay events after the signing of the Heads of Agreement do not conform to the definition
of 'Concurrent Delay' as defined under the contract.
Furthermore, the identification of any 'Concurrent Delay' caused by the Contractor is only a prerequisite
for financial compensation. This should not prevent the Engineer from making an assessment
of any Extension of Time for which the Contractor is required.
The terms of the Heads of Agreement, it does in fact set the precedent for awarding an Extension of
Time in advance of any agreement of the associated costs.
The Engineer concludes the final paragraph of its letter by stating:
"This presentation supports the Engineer's stand that all previously submitted CDAs are not in
compliance with the Contract requirements"
The Contractor responds as follows:
The Contractor again states, as it has done in numerous previous correspondence on this issue, that all
its submitted Consolidated Delay Analysis (CDAs) are in compliance with the Contract and the
Engineer continues to make global references to the Contract without providing his detailed
interpretation of the relevant Contract clauses.
What the presentation did demonstrate, however, is that should the Engineer not agree with the
Contractor's submitted position in relation to an Extension of Time entitlement and Concurrent Delay,
it has been provided with more than sufficient information to make its own assessment and
recommendation, which to date it has failed to do so.
The Contractor believes the above to be self-explanatory and that it fully addresses each of the points
raised by the Engineer within its letter dated 30 January 2017 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-06737}.
As the above proves, it is unfortunate that the Engineer has found it necessary to present a misguided
view of the meeting held on 18 January 2017 amongst others, and is again urged to focus his attention
on

reviewing the Contractor's various CDAs submitted to date, which the Contractor maintains is of
sufficient
detail to enable the Engineer to award interim Extensions of Time [emphasis added].
Yours faithfully,
