Subject:Discrepancies between Schedules issued by the Engineer for Doors, Doors Hardware, SACS,
Power and Data – History of Events and Plan for Moving Forward
Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,
We refer to the correspondence exchanged between us concerning discrepancies in various design
documents issued by you for the doors, door hardware and associated systems, and we also refer to our
recent constructive meeting held on [16th January 2019] in relation to this subject. We have set down
the background to this matter below which we believe will assist the parties in the understanding of this
complex issue. The primary purpose of this letter is to reiterate the message that we gave at the
meeting of [16th January 2019], namely that urgent action is required to resolve certain outstanding
issues concerning design of the doors (and associated systems) to ensure that completion of the Works
within the Time for Completion is not jeopardised.
At the outset, we believe that it is common ground that responsibility under the Contract for the design
of doors and the integration of those parts of the Works which are intrinsically linked to the doors,
including hardware, control system (‘SACS’), power, data and the like, lies with the Employer. Our
responsibility is to follow with due diligence the Drawings and Specifications, and it is our position that
we have discharged, and continue to discharge, this obligation with the necessary expertise, care and
skill that could reasonably be expected from an Experienced Contractor. Further comments regarding
our position about the design of the doors can be found in our letter referenced (5) above.
As described below and in our attached chronology of events, discrepancies and ambiguities between
documents issued by you, including Engineer’s Instructions (‘EIs’), bulletins and door schedules (as well
as associated hardware, SACS, power and data) were first encountered in 2014. Many of these issues
even now remain unresolved due to the lack of a final overall comprehensive and clear design with all
the necessary information required by us to complete the door installation works. Broadly speaking,
there has been a pattern whereby you have progressively revised and updated the design and instructed
us to implement the works based on the latest design, whilst it has subsequently transpired that this

latest design which we had implemented or (endeavoured to implement) had not, unfortunately,
resolved all of existing discrepancies and ambiguities.
This letter, and its attached chronology, summarizes the main history of events. As there is already
much correspondence previously submitted providing all of the details of the events, it is not the
intention of this letter to reproduce the entire content of all of the submissions, but it is necessary to
reproduce the main aspects, to describe the various events and circumstances around the matters as
this will be of assistance in resolving the issues.
We believe that the numerous discrepancies and ambiguities can be traced back to certain deviations
from standards and codes of practise governing the doors and the associated systems including fire,
power, data and SACS. An example of such deviations is the introduction of break glass units (‘BGUs’)
which conflicted with the codes of practices. We raised this issue via our letter referenced
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010696 dated 27 June 2017 wherein we expressed our concerns and sought
indemnity against any consequences arising from these deviations. In your response , amongst others,
you made the following statements “… consequently, deviation from code in some cases is inevitable ….
Design is an engineered solution which did not fully conform to a single code as this code cannot fully
cover complex buildings (such as terminal buildings), yet such solution has taken into account the
stakeholders requirements and security demands …”.
From an early stage in the Project we identified numerous discrepancies and ambiguities in the Door
Schedules issued by you under Engineer’s Instructions. As a consequence of this, tripartite workshops
were held in an endeavour to resolve the issues. Engineer’s Instructions and revised Door Schedules
were issued progressively by you after each workshop from early 2015 up to September 2017. After
each workshop you issued an Engineer’s Instruction for our implementation and execution. On
receiving the relevant Engineer’s Instruction we diligently proceeded with the necessary
implementation, including the ordering and manufacturing of the doors.
After a final workshop in September 2017, you requested us to submit a combined Door Schedule listing
all of the doors that were previously instructed for implementation and recording what changes had
been instructed. Hence we were extremely surprised to receive your letters referenced (3 to 4) above,
alleging that the purpose of us in providing you with a combined Door Schedule was for you to give
approval to same prior to it being used for implementation of the Works. You have made amendments
to our combined Door Schedules and returned the amended Schedule to us for implementation,
notwithstanding that you are aware that the majority of these revised Works have already been
implemented based on earlier version of the design. We have contended that those amendments issued
subsequent to the effective date of Settlement Agreement constitute a Variation .
More pressing at present, as set down in the attached chronology of events, there remain many
unresolved issues including discrepancies between the Door Schedule and the SACS Schedule, as well as
matters relating to fire life safety interface requirements. At the meeting on [16th January 2019] we
proposed the following plan:
(1)
That we will work with you in a proactive and cooperative manner to compile a comprehensive
schedule of issues relating to the doors that remained outstanding;
(2)
thereafter, to the extent that we can, we will assist you in finding solutions to these issues (and
any solutions such endeavour to minimise the amount of abortive work (if any)); and

(3)
finally, when the technical issues are resolved, we will continue to work together to identify and
endeavour to agree which changes (if any) have been subsumed by Settlement Agreement and
Amendment No. 8 and which amendments constitute a Variation.
We trust that you are in agreement that this proposed collaborative approach is in the best interests of
the Employer and the Project.
Yours faithfully,
