GUIDE-LINES
SUBCONTRACTORS SUBMISSIONS OF COSTS FOR PROLONGATION, DISRUPTION, SPECIAL MEASURES
AND SUCH LIKE
Guidelines on Information Required for Cost Substantiation
Prolongation and Disruption Costs
The following sets out the minimal requirements for cost substantiation documents from TCA-JV’s
Subcontractors, where further audits are to be carried out.
The Subcontractors need to provide, as a minimum, the following:
1.
Cost substantiation should be presented in a proper structure with supporting narrative and
appendices which reflects the ‘cost sections/headings’ listed on the Subcontractors’ overall cost

summary sheet (excel copy - cost spread monthly), where cost substantiation is provided on a month by
month basis.
2.
The Subcontractor must provide the details of costs by reference to the resources deployed and
invoices etc., to substantiate the actual costs of time related costs, i.e. prolongation costs.
3.
Detailed calculations for the additional costs must be provided in a spreadsheet format. Such
spreadsheets should be consistent with the narrative in terms of titles and column headings (sample
provided).
4.
Invoices should be individually referenced and cross-referenced back to secondary summary
sheets which then correlates to the overall cost summary sheet, so that the reviewer may easily verify
and track all costs.
5. Tender and actual project organization charts.
6. Proof of Subcontractor monthly reporting on claims and EoT’s (Extension of Time) related issues.
7. Proof of Subcontractors monthly reporting on delay and disruption mitigation measures undertaken.
8. Staff salary certificates should be provided for all staff claimed over the prolonged period, supported
by timesheets and proof of site presence.
9. Other staff and management supporting documents should include, but not be limited to the
following:
•
design, engineering and consultancy invoices
•
salary certificates, timesheets, site clock-in records, site badges/ID’s
•
purchase orders and quotations
•
health insurance, visa costs, invoices
•
employee tenancy agreements
•
employee car rental agreements
•
employee general expenses
10.
Plant, equipment and tools provided on site are to be supported by timesheets and proof of site
presence. Other plant, equipment and machinery and site running costs supporting documents should
include, but not be limited to the following:
•
•
•
•
•

plant, equipment and machinery invoices
scaffolding services agreements & invoices (labour hire)
site running costs & invoices (back-charges listed separately)
site delivery notes
site office IT, furniture and office equipment invoices

•
safety and HSE equipment invoices
•
survey services agreements & invoices
•
diesel consumption reports which should match with equipment, plant & machinery lists
•
services, plant, equipment provided by TCA-JV should be listed separately
•
plant, machinery and equipment deprecation should be substantiated on a monthly basis
separately (if not included in Company Overheads)
11.
Additional costs in relation to Employer variation orders or instructed varied works cannot be
included in EoT cost submissions and these need to be allocated and dealt with separately under TCAJV’s V/O Department. Any ‘duplication’ of costs in relation to EoT and V/O cost submissions will be
deducted accordingly. It will be each Subcontractor’s obligation to demonstrate that duplication of costs
(EoT & Variations) has not occurred in this respect.
12.
Disruption costs (if any) related to ‘site labour disruption’ is required to be properly
substantiated in accordance with the ‘Measured Mile’ approach, if deemed appropriate or similar
justifiable means. These costs are not to be based on a theoretical calculation basis only. These costs
require full substantiation of actual costs incurred with clear and supported records and documents.
Disruption costs require further detailed substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when
and how sections of the Subcontract Works were actually disrupted, and by which party.
13.
Acceleration costs (if any) is required to be properly substantiated. These costs are not to be
based on a theoretical calculation only. These costs require full substantiation of actual costs incurred
with clear and supported records and documents. Acceleration costs require further detailed
substantiation and detailed site records to show where, when and how sections of the Subcontract
Works were actually accelerated and how these measures have achieved their respective accelerated
targets. Details of the formal instruction to accelerate which the Subcontractor should have received
from TCA-JV or the Engineer/Employer should also be provided.
14.
Subcontractor’s Overhead costs is required to be properly substantiated, where auditable
financial company reports can be provided for the previous 4 years to demonstrate the Subcontractor’s
Overheads on a yearly % basis. Emden’s or Hudson’s Formulae are not to be used. An average %
overhead calculation is to be shown (per year) for any year provided, which should not include Profit.
Profit is excluded for EoT cost submission purposes. The overhead should be expressed as % for each
year provided with the supporting company financial audit reports to demonstrate how that % was
calculated for that given year. Alternatively, actual Company Overheads can be provided and
substantiated for the project as a whole.
15.
Subcontractors cost documentation, substantiation and supporting files are to be provided on
disc, in a structured manner which can be followed. PDF and Excel copies (cost calculation sheets) of all
documents are to be clear and readable, copies which are unreadable or poorly scanned will be
returned in full. Language needs to be in English (for all documents) and any translation required will be
the Subcontractor’s responsibility to provide.

16.
Subcontractors are required to submit all substantiation of prolongation costs in a monthly
breakdown format. Invoices and back up data needs to be allocated clearly to the month where the
costs are actually incurred. This will identify the actual costs incurred in each respective month.
17.
All summary, primary and secondary calculation sheets (cost summary sheets) are to be
provided in both PDF and Excel formats.
18.
All cost substantiation and supporting documentation is to be referred to and related to the Abu
Dhabi Airport Project in some form, which clearly identifies that the cost data provided is related solely
for the purpose of this project only.
Conclusion:Subcontractors cost substantiation is to be provided in a ‘structured format’ and in a ‘properly organized
manner’ professionally and clearly presented and easy to follow which reflects the sections and cost
headings in the overall cost summary sheet (sample provided).
This will enable TCA-JV and the Engineer’s Auditors to follow the costs in a constructive and organized
manner. It is also imperative that every Subcontractor carries out its’ own ‘internal audits’ of its’ cost
substantiation prior to submission.
Important Notices:TCA-JV and the Engineer shall review the full submission upon receipt of a complete file with the
required level of substantiation. Therefore, TCA-JV urges the Subcontractors to expedite its efforts and
provide full details, cost substantiation and documents in line with the requirements set out.
Subject:

Cloisall EOT (Additional Cost) Claim

Dear Sir,
During our meeting this morning we conveyed to you our view that your entitlement to any
compensation arising from Employer and/or Contractor Culpable Delay Events is to the additional Cost
incurred i.e. Cost that you would not have incurred ‘but for’ the occurrence of the Delay Events.
In this regard, we noted that your claim for compensation comprises all prolongation costs incurred by
you after the expiration of the original Time for Completion (TFC) / original Completion Date of 25
February 2016. Moreover, that the total time-related cost incurred by you from the original
Commencement Date (07 Aug 2014) to the Completion Date to which you seek an EOT (19 March 2018)
is approximately AED 109m (excluding overhead) of which you claim AED 82m as additional. This being
the case, then it would seem that the difference (AED 27m) is what you assert to be the time-related
cost that you would have incurred in executing and completing your Subcontract Works over the original
TFC (07 Aug 2014 to 25 Feb 2016 / 568 days) plus the BIM 500 Overrun Period (26 Feb 2016 to 11 May
2016 / 76 days) that you scheduled in the approved programme as being completed outside of the TFC.

We do not accept that AED 27m was sufficient as the cost of the time-related resources necessary to
execute and complete your Subcontract Works over the originally programmed period i.e. 07 Aug 2014
to 11 May 2016 / 644 days. Indeed, we have noted that the Preliminaries element of your Subcontract
Price is AED 114m and consider this to support our view that if there had been no changes to the
sequence and durations set down in the approved baseline programme, then your time-related costs
would have been significantly in excess of AED 27m and hence your additional Cost significantly less
than 82m.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you the additional Cost incurred therefore, we
require you to provide us with the full details of the Staff resources that you would have deployed in
executing and completing your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline
programme. Also, the Staff resources you considered necessary to execute and complete your
Subcontract Works in accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme. The details are to include resource
names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates. You should also categorise the resources into
“Core” (deployed across the entire works), “Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular
locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding).
We also require you to similarly categorise the Staff, into “Core” (deployed across the entire works),
“Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to
supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding), that you have identified in June 2016 (AED 1,643,637),
September 2016 (AED 1,983,908) and June 2017 (AED 2,048,889).
Regarding the Staff Costs, we also noted in our meeting that we had observed from a brief review of the
payslips provided to us via your letter reference 11453 dated 17 December 2017, that accommodation
costs were not abated for Staff deployed for only part of the month; also, that lump sum additional
costs, such as flight tickets, are costed in the month in which they are paid and not across the entire
period over which the entitlement to the additional cost was accrued. This must be addressed in the
periods over which compensable delay is ascertained.
We look forward to our receipt of the information requested and assure you that it remains our
objective and intention to fairly determine any additional Cost to which you may be entitled arising from
Delay Events. In the interim, the continuation and progress of your Subcontract Works to meet the
requisite schedule will no doubt be viewed favourably and recognised as a demonstration of your
commitment to the Project.

Yours Faithfully,
