Subject:
Assessment of the performance of the Agreement No. S19-K/P24/2019/21 for the
execution of the construction and assembly works (“Agreement”) in the context of actions taken by
ADMC International sp. z o.o. (“ADMC”, “Subcontractor”) and Aldesa Construcciones Polska sp. z o.o.
(“Aldesa”), “Contractor”)

Dear Sirs,
Following the request to provide legal opinion regarding the possible actions taken by ADMC and Aldesa
during the performance of the Agreement and the further actions to be taken by ADMC in respect of
Aldesa, please find below our considerations and recommendations.
The memorandum has been drafted based on the information and documents provided during the
meeting at WKB offices on 22 September 2020 and subsequently in e-mails dated 25 September 2020
and 2 October 2020.

I.
Conclusions and recommendations
1.
There are grounds to assume that the Sections 1 and 9 of Subclause 14 of the Agreement
(regarding unilateral descoping of the Agreement by Aldesa) are null and void. Case law shows that such
a provision is in fact a partial withdrawal from the Agreement, which – if not limited by a specific term
(as is the case at hand) – should be assessed as invalid. Therefore, ADMC has a claim towards Aldesa to
perform the whole scope of works determined in the Agreement, including works already entrusted to
another subcontractor, and to be paid full appointed remuneration in this regard. Moreover, Aldesa’s
related claims for a reduction of ADMC's remuneration due to the entrusting particular works to a

substitute subcontractor as well as imposing on ADMC the contractual penalties for culpable delay seem
unfounded. Nevertheless, the Agreement provides also for other grounds for retention of part of
ADMC’s remuneration (eg. poor quality of works). However, provided documents do not show there are
such additional grounds.
2.
Pursuant to COVID regulations ADMC has a claim towards Aldesa to adjust the Agreement, in
particular to extend the time for completion of the agreement and/or its particular parts. If there was a
change of agreement concluded between Aldesa and the Employer regarding part of the order
entrusted to ADMC, ADMC has additional grounds for claim towards Aldesa to adjust the Agreement in
the same part at least the same way as it was done between the Employer and Aldesa.
3.
We recommend to write a letter to Aldesa with a summary description of the course of your
cooperation, on the basis of the documents exchanged, followed by legal arguments of ADMC’s claims
for payment and extension of time. There shall be stressed circumstances such as Aldesa’s lack of
cooperation, their breaches of the contract and ADMC making any effort to ensure proper contract
implementation.
4.
Moreover, we recommend to write a letter to the Employer – GDDKiA, with description of the
course of the cooperation with Aldesa. There shall be also filed an application for direct payment and
made a request for providing ADMC a changed contract between the Employer and Aldesa (or
information thereof), if there had been any change in accordance with COVID regulations referring to
the scope of works performed by ADMC.
II.
Facts
1.
ADMC and Aldesa concluded on 4 October 2019 the Agreement. ADMC is a Subcontractor to
Aldesa in the contract called “Projekt i budowa drogi ekspresowej S19 Lublin-Rzeszów, odc. Lublin –
koniec obw. Kraśnika: Część nr 1 : odc. Realizacyjny Lublin (węzeł “Konopnica” obecnie “Lublin Węglin” –
bez węzła) – węzeł “Niedrzwica D.” obecnie “Niedrzwica Duża” z węzłem” („Contract”). Aldesa is
executing this project for Generalna Dyrekcja Dróg Krajowych i Autostrad (“GDDKiA”) also with
subcontractors, including through the Agreement with ADMC.
2.
According to the documentation provided to WKB on 22 September 2020, the course of
cooperation was not correct from the beginning of executing of the Agreement. The start of works was
delayed due to Aldesa's fault. Then ADMC had some problems with bringing in workers from Albania
due to COVID-19 restrictions imposed in Poland and Europe. Once the works were commenced and
ADMC was ready to perform, Aldesa was delayed with the supply of materials for the construction
and/or the materials were of poor quality not meeting the technical specifications set forth in the
Contract. According to Aldesa's calls, ADMC increased the number of workers several times to speed up
the progress of the works. Nevertheless, this was not possible due to shortages on the construction site.
3.
COVID outbreak has significantly influenced the way of the Agreement being performed on
time. On 16 March 2020 40% of ADMC employees left the construction site, justifying the decision with
an existing emergency. As a result, at some point in time the delay was 35 days in relation to the
adopted schedule. Due to COVID's regulations, in particular the ban on movement, the closure of
borders and the need to go through quarantine, there were problems with hiring new workers. The
need to maintain social distance and use personal protective equipment affected the productivity.
4.
Throughout the whole period of cooperation, ADMC was making requests to make adjustments
to the schedule due to circumstances causing a delay in the execution of works. According to the
documentation provided, Aldesa did not respond to ADMC’s letters. However, throughout almost the
entire period of cooperation, Aldesa has been calling on ADMC for an acceleration of the pace of the
works and threatening to impose contractual penalties, withdraw from the contract and entrust the
works to another subcontractor at ADMC's expense and risk.

5.
In the letter dated 17 August 2020, Aldesa set a deadline for ADMC to perform the certain work
and then entrusted part of the work to another subcontractor. In the letter dated 2 September 2020,
Aldesa called on ADMC to immediately return to the construction site and remove the defective works.
Aldesa imposed also on ADMC contractual penalties and threatened to withdraw from the contract and
entrust work to another subcontractor.
6.
Based on the ADMC’s e-mail of 21 September 2020, Aldesa kept resisting not to sign the
protocols (which Subcontractor issued every month) with the work done due to repairing or deshuttering issues that are still presentable on site. Therefore, the Contractor was refusing to pay the
remuneration. On 29 September 2020, during a meeting between Aldesa and ADMC, Aldesa signed the
protocols and ADMC issued the invoices on the next day.
7.
Further to the information provided by ADMC on 2 October 2020, the parties held a meeting on
29 September 2020 during which Aldesa signed the two overdue protocols of works against which
ADMC issued invoices. We have no information whether these invoices were paid and also there are
other pending protocols to be signed by Aldesa and whether ADMC has other overdue payments to
receive from Aldesa.
8.
Also, during a telephone conversation held on 2 October 2020 parties hold negotiations for
amicable de-scoping the Agreement, leaving only 3 engineering objects within the scope of works of
ADMC. As at the date of drafting this memorandum, WKB was not provided with any written drafts
regarding that issue.
III.
Analysis
Assessment of Aldesa’s possible claims
Reducing the scope of the works and entrusting it to another subcontractors
1.
According to documents provided, Aldesa reduced once, by the letter dated 11 March 2020,
ADMC’s scope of works and entrusted that work to another subcontractor. The Contractor threatened
to do that several times.
2.
Pursuant to Subclause 14 section 1 of the Agreement, Contractor has the right to exclude from
the scope of the contract – unilaterally – any scope of works. Moreover, there are no limits for such
reductions. Pursuant to Subclause 14 section 9 of the Agreement, in such case the Subcontractor's
remuneration is reduced by the value of abandoned/descoped works based on unit prices specified in
the Table of Flat-Rate Remuneration Division. The Agreement stipulates that if such reduction is made
by Aldesa, the Subcontractor loses the right to receive remuneration for such works and waives all
claims for damages against the Contractor and the Employer.
3.
The conditions for entrusting the performance of certain works to another subcontractor have
been specified in Subclause 3 section 10 and Subclause 5 section 8 of the Agreement. They concern,
inter alia, the delay in the execution of works exceeding 7 days in relation to the works schedule or non
performing works for 3 days or improper performance of the works despite a prior warning. Based on
documentation given, these are the main allegations of Aldesa towards ADMC.
4.
There are some grounds to assume that such clauses are null and void under Polish law. In the
case law a view was expressed that reducing the scope of works, and consequently also the
subcontractor’s remuneration, by unilateral declaration, is identical to withdrawal from the contract .
This means that the validity of such a provision depends on complying with the requirements for that
institution, in particular the agreement should determine the period in which this right may be
exercised.
5.
In the case at hand, such a deadline for reducing the scope of works has not been specified in
the Agreement. Therefore, in our opinion, ADMC may claim towards Aldesa to perform the whole scope
of works determined in the Agreement, including works already entrusted to another subcontractor,

and to be paid full appointed remuneration. In relation to this, also Aldesa’s claim for reduction of
ADMC's remuneration due to the entrusting particular works to a substitute subcontractor seems to be
unfounded. If there are no grounds for Aldesa to reduce ADMC’s scope of works, it cannot also entrust
those works to another subcontractors, burden ADMC with incurred costs and decrease ADMC’s
remuneration. Please note however, that there is no firm line of judgments representing the discussed
view, hence the outcome of a potential dispute relying on such argument is not prejudged in favour of
ADMC.
Withdrawal from the Agreement
6.
In the letter dated 2 September 2020 Aldesa threatened ADMC to withdraw from the
Agreement and entrust the work to another entity due to the ADMC’s failure to appear on the
construction site. ADMC did not abandon site and after 2 September 2020 there are few workers on
site. However, full capacity according to the Schedule was not reached.
7.
Pursuant to Subclause 11 Aldesa has a right to withdraw from the Agreement in whole or in its
part not performed. The catalogue of conditions is very extensive. Based on documentation provided,
relevant points concern:
•
delay in the execution of works exceeding 14 days in relation to the works schedule (section 1
point a)),
•
stopping, for reasons attributable to ADMC, the execution of the subject of the contract and lack
of continuation despite the contractor's written request to continue works (sec. 1 p. b)),
•
stopping works for any reason and the break lasts more than 15 days (sec. 1 p. c)),
•
subcontractor’s breach of the provisions of the Agreement, in particular when it performs the
subject of the contract contrary to its provisions or the law (sec. 1 p. d)).
8.
Pursuant to section 3 of the Subclause Aldesa is entitled to withdraw from the Agreement within
60 days of the occurrence of the condition, not later than by 28 July 2021. In case of withdrawal from
the Agreement for reasons attributable to ADMC, ADMC is obliged to cover the entire damage suffered
by Aldesa.
Based on documentation provided, in our opinion there are no solid grounds for Aldesa to withdraw
from the Agreement at the moment.
9.
Firstly, ADMC was informing Aldesa in writing about circumstances affecting execution of works
according to the schedule. According to the analysed letters, the circumstances were not attributable to
ADMC and were mostly resulting from COVID’s regulations and restrictions or lack and poor quality of
materials delivered by Aldesa. Moreover, ADMC reacted to Aldesa’s calls to increase the number of
employees on the construction site. Therefore, in our opinion , ADMC had several claims towards Aldesa
to adjust the schedule. Then, if those claims have been satisfied by Aldesa, ADMC would not have been
in delay in the execution of works. Nevertheless, based on documentation provided, Aldesa was
informing about the delay exceeding 7 days not 14, as it results from the Agreement.
10.
Please note however, that we have no full insight in the circumstances accompanying the
performance of the Agreement and we have no complex grounds to assess to what extent Aldesa’s calls
to ADMC related to the delays in performance of works were justified. Should it appear that ADMC was
rightfully calling ADMC to speed up works (i.e. that the delays were resulting from reasons attributable
to ADMC – eg. not performing works in the full time from 6-22 from Monday to Saturday and/or lack of
proper mobilisation of staff and equipment – and not eg. COVID-19), we cannot exclude the risk that
Aldesa’s calls and subsequently – the rights enforced by Aldesa (descoping of works and imposing of
penalties) - were justified.
11.
As regards to the prerequisites for withdrawal indicated in Sec. 1 p. b) of the Agreement – based
on the documents shared we have not identified grounds for applying this provision.

12.
As regards to the prerequisites for withdrawal indicated in Sec. 1 p. c) of the Agreement – based
on the documents shared we have not identified grounds for applying this provision.
13.
Based on documentation provided, Aldesa was calling several times the attention to poor
quality of ADMC’s works. In our opinion, the defects do not seem to be serious enough to justify the
withdrawal from the Agreement – however, final statement of this issue should be assessed by a
technical expert. Nevertheless, it is Aldesa’s entitlement to benefit by its right to withdraw (whether
fully justified or not). Notably, in its letter dated 2 September 2020 Aldesa called upon ADMC to remove
the defects under the pain of removing the defects at ADMC’s expense and risk and not under the pain
of withdrawal from the Agreement (which does not mean that Aldesa does not have the right to
withdraw based on the Agreement, it only means that Aldesa did not manifest explicitly such intention
so far). On the other hand, pursuant to Subclause 5 section 3 p. j) ADMC is obliged to execute works
minimum 6 days a week from 6:00 am to 10:00 pm. Based on documentation provided, Aldesa called on
ADMC to perform its duties in this regard and ADMC did not response. Therefore, in our opinion, this
might be a valid ground for Aldesa to withdraw from the Agreement.
14.
In the letter dated 2 September 2020 Aldesa indicated Art. 491 section 1 of the Civil Code as a
basis for withdrawal from the Agreement.
15.
Pursuant to that provision, if one of the parties is delayed in making the performance resulting
from a mutual contract, the other party may set an appropriate additional time limit for the
performance with the warning that in the case of an ineffective lapse of the time set he shall be entitled
to renounce the contract. It may also, either without setting an additional time limit or after its
ineffective elapse, demand the making of the performance and the redress of the damage resulting
from the delay.
16.
Therefore, due to Aldesa’s opinion of ADMC’s being in delay in the execution of works, the
Contractor assumes that he is entitled to withdraw from the Agreement on the basis of generally
applicable regulations. Given the above, ADMC has (i) a claim to adjust the schedule so that it would not
be in delay and also (ii) the possibility to enforce its rights under Covid-19 crisis regulations discussed
below
17.
Nevertheless, we would like to underline the risks connected with Aldesa’s justified withdrawal
from the Agreement. Pursuant to Subclause 10 section 1 p. d) the Contractor is entitled to impose on
ADMC a contractual penalty in the amount of 15% of the gross remuneration in case of withdrawal from
the Agreement for reasons attributable to the Subcontractor and impose a contractual penalty in the
amount of 15% of gross remuneration to be paid in case of withdrawal from the part of the Agreement.
Assessment of ADMC’s possible claims
Demanding payment of the entire remuneration
18.
Based on the ADMC’s e-mail of 21 September 2020, Aldesa has kept around PLN 1.6 mln unpaid
whereas it is entitled to retain only 0.6 mln as a retention. Pursuant to Subclause 12 section 3 Aldesa has
a right to retain 20% of the gross amount due from each VAT invoice as security until the full value of
the Good Performance Guarantee is reached. Therefore, in our opinion retention of that amount shall
be unquestionable.
19.
Based on abovementioned e-mail, Aldesa kept resisting not to sign the protocols that ADMC
issued every month due to repairing or de-shuttering issues that were still presentable on the
construction site.
20.
The remuneration and the method of its settlement are regulated in Subclause 8 of the
Agreement. According to that Subclause, ADMC shall be obliged to submit to Aldesa for verification and
acceptance written reports on the number of works performed by the 23rd day of each calendar month.
The Subcontractor shall attach to the application partial billing table - Work Advancement Protocol,

documents confirming the execution of works and a list of payments made and proof of payment
confirming that there are no outstanding liabilities to further subcontractors and further suppliers.
21.
Settlement of remuneration should take place on the basis of monthly partial invoices after
completion and confirmation by an authorized representative of Aldesa of the number of works
performed and confirmed by the signature of the Aldesa's Site Manager or Aldesa’s authorized
representative Settlement Table. After receiving the Billing Table approved by Aldesa, ADMC is entitled
to issue on this basis a partial invoice for the number and quantity of works performed. According to
paragraph 9, Aldesa is obliged to pay the invoice within 30 days, calculated from the date of acceptance
of a correctly issued invoice with a set of attachments. Therefore, in our opinion, the Contractor is not
entitled to arbitrarily refuse to sign the protocols and breaches his duty arising from Subclause 4 p. f) of
the Agreement. In particular, par. 8 of the Agreement providing the procedure of payment does not
foresee Aldesa’s right to refuse signing of a monthly protocol. Aldesa can refuse to certify some works
and settle them in further monthly protocols, but cannot refuse signing of the protocols as such.
22.
Nevertheless, pursuant to the Agreement, Aldesa has a right to impose contractual penalties,
deduct receivables or retain amounts from ADMC’s remuneration in few cases – to the extent it has
valid counterclaims against ADMC.
23.
Firstly, pursuant to Subclause 10 Aldesa is entitled to impose on ADMC contractual penalties in
itemized cases. The catalogue is very extensive. Moreover, pursuant to sections 6 and 8, contractual
penalties can be deducted from the remuneration or securing proper performance of the Agreement.
Based on the documentation provided, relevant provisions concern delays in executing works (sec. 1 p.
a), b) and c)). Given the abovementioned argumentation, in our opinion there are no grounds to impose
contractual penalties on ADMC due to its claims to adjust the schedule. Moreover, Aldesa in its letters
dated 10 June 2020 and 2 September 2020 did not indicate specific breaches of ADMC, due dates and
amounts requested. The Contractor indicated all the three grounds for imposing contractual penalties
for delays in execution of works.
24.
Secondly, pursuant to Subclause 6 section 7 Aldesa is entitled to deduct from ADMC’s active
debt or the performance bond any direct payments made to ADMC’s subcontractors. Moreover,
pursuant to Subclause 8 section 13 Aldesa is entitled to deduct, based on accounting documents, any
amount due on any account resulting from the Agreement from the amount due to the ADMC under the
Agreement. Therefore, there are wide grounds for Aldesa to make set-offs. Nevertheless, pursuant to
abovementioned statement, in our opinion Aldesa is not entitled to impose on ADMC contractual
penalties for delays or charge it with the costs of replacement performance. Aldesa could set off with
ADMC’s remuneration any amounts which Aldesa paid to ADMC’s further subcontractors – however, we
have no information as to whether such payments took place so far.
25.
However, the Contractor cannot exercise yet its right arising from Subclause 9 section 5 as it is
stated in the letter dated 2 September 2020. Pursuant to that Subclause ADMC is obliged to remove any
defects immediately after the Aldesa’s call. In the event of ineffective expiry of the deadline, the
Contractor may order removal of these defects to another entity at the expense and risk of the
Subcontractor and deduct the incurred costs from its remuneration or satisfy itself from the
performance bond. However, pursuant to sections 1 and 3 of that Subclause, the warranty period and
warranty period for defects will start only on the day of final acceptance of the works by the Contractor,
which has not yet occurred.
26.
Thirdly, pursuant to Subclause 8 section 15 if any item delivered or work performed by ADMC is
not in conformity with the Agreement or the Main Agreement, the amount of remuneration equivalent
to the item delivered or work performed contrary to the Agreement or Main Agreement may be
withheld until the repair or replacement is properly performed. This is no ground, however, to refuse
the acceptance of the whole protocol – as it happened until today. According to Aldesa’s letter dated 2
September 2020, there might be some defects to be removed. Based on documentation given, we are

not able to assess that circumstances. Therefore, in our opinion, there might be grounds for retaining
specific amounts from ADMC’s remuneration in this regard.
27.
Moreover, pursuant to Subclause 8 section 10, Aldesa has a right to retain the monthly payment
for the work performed by the ADMC until it pays the monthly invoices to further subcontractors. Based
on documentation provided, there is no such problem.
Adjusting of the Agreement
28.
On 31 March 2020, with regard to COVID, the Act amending the Act on special arrangements for
preventing, preventing and combating COVID-19, other infectious diseases and crisis situations caused
by them and certain other laws has been adopted (Dz.U. 2020 poz. 568, “COVID Act”).
29.
Pursuant to Subclause 15r section 7 of the COVID Act, the contractor and the subcontractor,
having determined that the circumstances related to the occurrence of COVID-19 may affect or
influence the proper performance of their subcontract, which is related to the performance of the public
contract or a part thereof, agree on an appropriate amendment to this subcontract, in particular they
may change the date of performance of the subcontract or a part thereof, temporarily suspend
performance of the subcontract or a part thereof, change the manner of performance of the
subcontract or change the scope of mutual benefits.
30.
Based on documentation provided, COVID outbreak has had an influence on the proper
performance of the Agreement. Therefore, in our opinion, pursuant to Subclause 15r section 7 of the
COVID Act, ADMC has a claim to Aldesa to adjust the Agreement, in particular contract delivery date or
date of completion of particular parts of the Agreement (eg. Milestones).
31.
Moreover, pursuant to Subclause 15r section 8 of the COVID Act, in case of an amendment to
the agreement between the Contractor (Aldesa) and the Employer (GDDKiA), if the amendment covers a
part of the contract entrusted to the subcontractor (ADMC), the Contractor and the Subcontractor shall
agree on an appropriate amendment to the agreement. The conditions for the performance of this
agreement by the subcontractor shall not be less favourable than those for the performance of the
contract. Therefore, in our opinion, if Aldesa and GDDKiA concluded an amendment to the Main
Contract that regards the part of the order entrusted to ADMC, ADMC has additional grounds for claims
towards Aldesa to adjust the Agreement.

As the memorandum has been drafted in a dynamic environment of changing circumstances and based
on some assumptions which were not covered by documents and information provided by ADMC, we
remain at your disposal for any inquiries or comments you may have on the above.
Yours faithfully
