Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0167
Delays caused due to the Engineer’s Failure to proceed with Snagging Inspections for works associated
to all disciplines (MEP, Civil, Finishes etc.)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays consequent on your failure to proceed with multiple
snagging inspections, for works associated with all disciplines (MEP, Civil, Finishes, etc.).
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined in Annex A, particularly at this stage
of the Project, will, if allowed to continue, invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write to notify you of appreciable concerns we have with respect to your delays to proceed with
snagging inspections for works associated to all disciplines (MEP, Civil, Finishes, etc.). Specifically, once a
room or area is completed, we are submitting a Work Inspection Request (WIR) requesting the final
inspection and approval of the works for each respective discipline. However, significant delays are
being observed from each of your respective team/disciplines required to proceed with the snagging
inspections. Consequently, numerous snagging inspections remain open in ZUTEC; an extract of which is
attached for information hereto. This shows that at the cut-off date associated with the preparation of
this Notice (i.e. 31 October 2019), there were 41 inspections outstanding for various disciplines, albeit
the total number of snags to be inspected amount to 1,400 nos. in total.
It is for this reason we are raising this E-Notice, to notify you regarding your failure to proceed with the
inspections and request your prompt action to resolve the matter in order to mitigate such delay and/or
disruption to the Works. Moreover, while we appreciate ZUTEC is a live system and changes on a daily
basis, it is imperative any delays on your part / your teams’ part are mitigated in full; otherwise we
envisage the delays proceeding with snagging inspections will only worsen.
Consequently, any delay to inspections has to cease forthwith, but in the meantime the effects of delay
continues to have major ramifications on Room Completion, Snagging and De-Snagging and Defects
Management. We therefore urge you to proceed with the snagging inspections. This will enable us to
close the snagging inspections on ZUTEC system including those listed in the attached schedule. This is a
matter that is wholly avoidable, especially at such a late stage of the Project and is unnecessarily
delaying us for which we hold you entirely culpable. Considering the volume of inspections needed to be

actioned by you then any acts of prevention on your part will only continue to impact on our ability to
expedite room completions and conclude our Works throughout the MTB.
Resultant Impact
Meanwhile, the various delays and acts of prevention on your part outlined herein, is undeniably
causing delay and disruption to completion of our Works. Although we consider that MS06B has been
achieved, to the extent that it is not, which is denied, then the effects of delay associated with the
matters identified above, will impact upon achievement of Milestone MS06B as well as Milestone
MS06A. If matters continue then this will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
