Subject: Briefing Packs Neutral Document Record Sheets
Dear Sir,
Generated Between OS February 2018 to 07 March 2018
We enclose herewith revised Briefing Packs Sketches and CMIR as a record of the change management
workshops held between OS February 2018 to 07 March 2018 for your preparation of additional or
modified
drawings and specification and instruction necessary for the execution of the Works.
Kindly note that some of the signed document dates may vary from the cut-off date due to the time lag
between actual signatures and upload into shared file transfer protocol server.
For clarity and avoidance of doubt:
• The attached neutral sketches and other documents illustrate further development of, and potentially
additional changes than those provided in the original sketches as initially instructed by the Engineer's
Briefing Pack. For practical purposes and/or where ever practicable, the changes are identified by
clouding
the relevant parts ofthe neutral sketches.
• Other than reflecting the Employer's proposed Variation in relation to the current Contractor
coordination
of the Works, the Contractor's signature on the attached neutral documents does not imply any
warranty
or design responsibility with respect of the proposed Employer Variation.
• The Employer shall be responsible for ensuring that the participating Consultants have exercised the
necessary skill, care and judgement and are suitably qualified professionals who are competent to carry
out their assigned duties and are delegated the necessary authorities by the Engineer to act on behalf of
the Employer.
• The Employer retains the responsibility for the design, compliance with codes/applicable laws and the
relevant Governmental Authority approvals.
• The proposed Variation shall be deemed to be on hold pending the Engineer's instruction and
additional
or revised IFC Drawings to implement pursuant to the Variation provisions under the Contract.
• The neutral sketches or other documents are not Shop Drawings {or any other Contractor's
Document).
Such Contractor documents shall be developed pursuant a subsequent Engineer's instruction and
revised
IFC Drawings and/or specification. The Contractor's preparation of Shop Drawings shall be a sole
discretion of the Contractor.
Kindly issue a further instruction and revised drawings and/or specification for the implementation as a

confirmed Variation Order to minimize delays arising from the proposed Variations.
Thank you.
Subject: Briefing Packs Change Management Team
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of Engineer's letter ref (1) and once again records its disappointment
with
the contents therein.
The Engineer has stated in letter ref (1) that "The Engineers position remains that only the personnel
instructed through the relevant Engineer's Instructions are compensable by way of timesheet approval."
In
response to this statement, the Contractor directs the Engineer to Engineer's Instruction (EI) no 323
which
only states that "You are hereby instructed, pursuant to Clause 20.1.1 (a) of the Conditions of Contract_
to
appoint and implement competent and sufficient resources to address the completion of all design
items .... . " (emphasis added).
The Engineer's instruction does not clearly define which personnel are instructed to be utilised but
merely
states that competent and sufficient resources are to be implemented. Following receipt of El no 323,
the
Contractor complied with the instruction and ensured that competent and sufficient resources were
deployed to assist the Employer's Design Consultants in concluding the design.
Furthermore, the Engineer will acknowledge that usually during any design development process (which
the briefing pack process ultimately was); the presence of commercial and planning resources would
always be required . The Engineer issued the agreed briefing pack I design information development
process via letter ref (7) which stated that "Commercial team[s] to be involved [n the Change Team
Management reviews." Therefore, it is clearly evident from this statement that the Engineer understood
and acknowledged that, commercial and planning resources would be required, as part of the briefing
pack process.
Therefore based on the foregoing, the Contractor once again asserts that the Contractor having
complied
with the instruction of the Engineer is now being deprived of its entitlement under the Contract. The
Contractor, pursuant to clause 11.4, therefore insists that the Engineer assess the final value of the
Variation Order in a fair manner, taking into account all relevant circumstances but paying particular
regard to the non-obligation of the Contractor under the Contract in relation to assisting the Employer
to
complete its design.
Subject:Request of Consignment Clearance Authorisation (CCA) / Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi
Customs Authorities for Center Space Chandeliers with Steel Accessories, Fixing Devices, Support and

Restrain Members and Structural Steel Frames Chandeliers and its accessories under Bill of Lading No:
KS-1802
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to the Engineer’s Instruction No 119/119a we kindly request the Employer to issue a
Consignment Clearance Authorization (CCA) Duty Exemption Letter to Abu Dhabi Custom Authorities for
the Imported Material’s in connection with the delivery of the Center Space Chandeliers.
Please find attached herewith for your reference, the summary providing details required for the
delivery of the shipped materials.
We have just received the attached shipping documentation from our Subcontractor and we are mindful
that the shipment is scheduled to arrive at Jebel Ali Port on 26th March 2018, thus we respectfully
request you to process the requisite documentation in order to obtain the necessary exemption letter
from the Employer and to facilitate the release of the shipment from the port.

Yours faithfully,
