
Subject:Engineer’s Rejection of Contractor’s Claims for EOT on Grounds of the Contractor’s Purported
Failure to Issue Shop Drawings, As-Built Drawings, Material Approvals and other Submittals in a ‘Timely
Manner’
Dear Sir
We refer to your letters including without limitation letters ref: (1) to (7), responding to our E-Notices
that were issued in relation to your failure to adhere to the processing / cycle times specified in the
Contract for the review of our Shop Drawings, As-Built Drawings, Material Approvals and other
Submittals.
In letters ref: (1) to (6), you allege we have “failed to submit the documents in a timely manner as per
Clause 3.3 f of Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications (sic) and thus [have] no entitlement to an extension
of the Time for Completion”. While in letter ref: (7) you inform us that the “Contractor is … required to
submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 3.3 f of Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications (sic)
otherwise there is no entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion”.
We believe that you meant to refer to Clause 1.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 01.33.00 and not Clause
3.3 f [which refers to inter alia the Contractor being responsible for quantities and dimensions on
submittals]. Clause 1.3.A.3 (f) provides that “No extension of time for completion shall be authorised to
the Contractor due to the Contractor’s failure to transmit submittals in a timely manner.”
When your paraphrasing of Clause 1.3.A.3 (f) is parsed with the actual words set down in the clause, it
can be seen that you have mischaracterised the provision and in doing so you have derived a misleading
and specious version of the same. Your interpretation of Clause 1.3.A.3 (f) is thus rejected by us.
We are aware of our obligations under Clause 1.3.A.3 (f) of the Specification and we contend that we
submit our Shop Drawings, As-Built Drawings, Material Approvals and other Document Submittals to
you in a timely manner . However, had you taken the time to examine our notices before your penned
your responses you would have noted that we have not claimed any entitlement due to any culpability
on our part [which we deny in any event], for any alleged failure to transmit any Shop Drawings, As-Built
Drawings, Material Approvals and other Document Submittal to you in a timely manner. This is an
important point. Our delay notices are premised entirely on your failure to adhere to the processing /
cycle times expressly stated as per Clause 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 01 33 00 ‘‘Submittal
Procedures’. This provision places an obligation upon you to review and return submittals within 21, 14
and 7 calendar days respectively according to whether the review is an initial review (Rev. 0), first resubmittal review (Rev. 1) or second re-submittal review (Rev. 2).
All of our notices clearly demonstrate that you consistently failed to respond to our submittals within
the times prescribed within Clause 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 01 33 00. This is a matter of
fact; and represents an unequivocal ‘breach of the Contract or act of prevention’ pursuant to Sub-Clause
16.5.1 (c) of the Conditions of Contract and entitles us to an extension of the Time for Completion.
To put it simply, the Contractor’s entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion due to the
Engineer’s failure to adhere to the processing / cycle times expressly stated as per Clause 1.3.A.3 (a) to
(d) of Specification Section 01 33 00 ‘‘Submittal Procedures is not negated by any separate failure of the
Contractor (which is denied) to make its submissions in a timely manner. We contend that were this to
be otherwise, unequivocally clear and condition precedent wording would be required in Clause 1.3.A.3
(f) of Specification Section 01.33.00, and no such words are present in this provision.
In summary, all our rights and entitlements to recover associated additional time and costs resulting
from any breach or act of prevention on your part, in failing to respond to any Shop Drawings, As-Built
Drawings, Material Approvals and other Document Submittal within the times expressly stipulated at
Clause 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 01 33 00, will continue to apply irrespective of any
alleged failure on our part [which is denied], to transmit any submittal to you in a timely manner.

Yours faithfully,
