Subject: Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 - Removal and Re-installation of Cove Lights Framing for
Gate houses GH29, GH32, GH33 and GH34 at PBB Side
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter and correspondence, please find attached Contractor's
Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 which is self explanatory.
This Contractor's Instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 11.3 and Clause 20.1.1{a) of the Conditions of
Subcontract to proceed immediately with the removal and re-installation of cove lights framing for
gatehouses GH29, GH32, GH33 and GH34 at PBB Side to facilitate Fibrex with the alignment of their
precast panels as indicated in the attached report and as detailed below, in accordance with the
Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00294 attached herewith.

Remove the installed cove light frames for Fibrex realignment of GRC panels. Following which, same
should be reinstalled:
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH29
• 13 precast Fibrex panels to the front of the GH29
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH32
• 17 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH33
• 17 precast Fibrex panels on the Non PBB side of GH33
• 10 precast Fibrex panels on the PBB side of GH34
Furthermore, the Subcontractor shall also remove and reinstall any additional frames as required and
same shall be deemed instructed under this C. I.
Whilst this instruction is issued pursuant to Clause 20.1.1{a). the Subcontractor will be required to
demonstrate contractual entitlement to a Variation for each and every item and provide all the
necessary substantiations to verify the cost of each potential Variation.
Your cooperation to carry out the above instruction with due expedition is required.

Subject Pending Requests for Variation Orders and Supporting Particulars for Outstanding Variations
Dear Sir,
As advised to the Subcontractor in previous occasions, the Contractor is currently consulting with the
Employer in an endeavour to reach agreement on the valuation of Variations associated with the
Subcontractor's package. In order to enable this process of consultation to conclude in a satisfactory
manner for all parties, the Contractor requires the Subcontractor's cooperation in respect of the
submission of outstanding Requests for Variation Orders (RFVOs) with full supporting particulars.
Moreover, the Subcontractor is required to expedite the preparation of all RFVOs which have not yet
been submitted to date. Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the
Subcontractor's entitlement and the Contractor's ability to evaluate these Variations to the satisfaction
of all parties. In respect of outstanding supporting particulars, please find below a list of RFVOs which
are pending the submission of further substantiation by the Subcontractor:
In addition to the above, the Contractor reiterates its request that the Subcontractor submits both
details of any design cost incurred after the Cut-off 5 and all briefing packs' timesheets. Further, the
Contractor strongly advises that the Subcontractor prepares a design cost presentation to the Employer
which may enable the parties to reach agreement on this matter. The Subcontractor is requested to
submit the abovementioned information within fourteen (14) days of this notice.
The Contractor is committed to working with the Subcontractor to satisfactory resolve its Variation
account; however, should the Subcontractor fail to provide the necessary supporting information as
required by both the Subcontract and international Best Practice for projects of this scale and
complexity within the requested timeframes, the Contractor will proceed with its fair and reasonable
determination in due course.
Yours faithfully,
