Subject:

Re: Application for Taking Over and Release of Retention Monies

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters referenced (1) and (2) above and our discussion regarding the subject matter
and we hereby inform you the following.
Please be informed that pursuant to the conditions under Clause 8 [Retention] of Schedule 11 [Payment
Terms], you are not entitled for the release of the retention amount against a corresponding Retention

Bond as stated in your letter reference (1) above. For ease of reference, please note the following
Clauses of Schedule 11:
Clause 8.3 “No Retention Money shall be released, and the value of any Retention Bond shall not be
reduced, on the issue of the Taking Over Certificate for Substantial Completion”.
Clause 8.4 “When the Taking Over Certificate has been issued for NOTP Completion the Subcontractor
may reduce the value of the Retention Bond so that the Total Retention is reduced by fifty percent
(50%)”.
Clause 8.5 “If the value of the Retention Bond is, as a result of paragraph 8.4, reduced to nil the
Contractor shall:
(a) promptly return the Retention Bond to the Subcontractor; and
(b) the amount of Retention Money (if any) necessary to reduce the Total Retention to fifty percent
(50%) of the Total Retention immediately prior to the value of the Retention Bond being reduced under
paragraph 8.4 shall be certified by the Contractor for payment to the Subcontractor”.
Clause 8.6 “Subject to paragraph 8.7, within eighty four (84) days after the expiry of the Defect Liability
Period, the outstanding balance of the Retention Money shall be certified by the Contractor for payment
to the Subcontractor and the Contractor shall return to the Subcontractor any Retention Bond that it
holds”.
Clause 8.7 “However, if any work remains to be executed or defect, deficiency or damage remedied
under clause 19 (Defects Liability), the Contractor shall be entitled (at its sole discretion) to withhold the
estimated cost of this work from the Retention Money until such work has been carried out and
completed and/or the defect, deficiency or damage has been remedied”.
In view of the above, please be informed that the return of the Retention Bond and the release of the
retention monies are subject to the issue of TOC for NOTP Completion (Non-Operational Trial Period).
Consequently, since TOC for NOTP completion has not been issued by the Engineer yet, which is further
explained below, we are unable to proceed with issuance of the same. Therefore once the
aforementioned is issued by the Engineer we shall proceed with the provisions provided within the
Subcontract and described herein to release the Retention Bond and the retention amounts accordingly.
In regards to your request as per your letter reference (2) wherein you have applied for a Taking Over
Certificate (TOC), please note that the TOC is subject to the Engineer’s issuance. Pursuant to Clause
18.1.1 [Taking Over of the Subcontract Works and Milestones] “Subject to clause 18.2 (Taking Over of
Parts of the Subcontract Works) a Taking Over Certificate shall only be issued on Substantial Completion
and NOTP Completion. […]”. Moreover, Clause 18.1.8 clearly specifies that “Notwithstanding the
provisions of this clause 18.1, the Subcontractor agrees that receipt by the Contractor of the relevant
Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the Works from the Engineer is a condition precedent for
the issuance by Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the

Subcontract Works, unless otherwise agreed”. Accordingly, please be informed that the Engineer has
not yet issued any TOC for any of the parts of the works for any of the Subcontractors in the Project.
In response to your statement made in your letter referenced (2) above, regarding the expenses
associated with the renewal of Insurance Policies, Bonds and Warranties, we would suggest that you
continue submitting any costs related to your prolongation costs to ensure that all relevant evidences
related to your prolongation costs are submitted for evaluation.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:Outstanding Submission of Bonds & Insurances

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject matter, please find enclosed a copy of the Subcontract Insurance
Approval forms, wherein, comments have been noted for your immediate action. Said comments are as
follows:
1.
Third Party Liability
a.
We cannot review a quotation. We need to receive full policy documents once issued for review
and acceptance
2.
Professional Indemnity
a.
We cannot review a quotation. We need to receive full policy documents once issued for review
and acceptance
Furthermore, we note that at the time of writing, you have failed to submit both an Advance Payment &
Performance Guarantee for review & acceptance.
We remind you that no payments shall be made under the Subcontract Agreement until all of the above
are received and approved (Schedule 11 – 5.1 Interim Payments).
Yours Truly,
Subject:Re: Lack of Open Areas / Work-Fronts for Stone Installation
Dear Sir,
In response to your referenced letter (2) and other numerous correspondences exchanged between us
in regards to available work-fronts, we respond as follows.

Please rest assured that we have been and continue to be available at all times to ensure good
communication for the smooth progression of the works. Kindly be informed that, we as the Contractor,
have no intention of alleging or stating inaccurate facts as mentioned in your letter reference (2).
We hereby inform you that our position regarding this matter remains as per the contents of our letter
referenced (1) above. In general, your letter reference (2), does not provide clarity and/or resolution. In
our letter reference (1) we have used your own submitted progress report as of 22nd February 2018 to
extract the information for the available work-fronts.
We acknowledge your contractual right to advise us of any (if any) circumstances causing delays;
however, you also have the contractual responsibility to comply with the conditions of the Subcontract
and ensure that there are available resources on-site, all mitigation measures have been taken and
works are progressing without delay and are completed on time. Once again we inform you that we
have the duty to ensure the smooth progression of the works and you have the obligation to ensure for
the same.
In view of the above, you have been instructed to provide an action plan providing mitigation measures
in accordance with Clause 16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays] which is yet to be submitted. Also, you are
requested once again, to coordinate your works in a proper sequence by means of continuous
communication with our construction team and other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely completion
of the works.
In regards to your comments made under CP L3.0 and CP L2.0 in your said letter, be informed as stated
above, that these comments do not provide any justification and/or resolution. On the other hand, the
comments are actually an admittance that there are indeed enough available work-fronts for you to
proceed with the works. The fact for example, that your comments under CP L3.0, state that the
quantity of available work-fronts is allegedly 4,438m2 instead of 4,996m2 as stated in our letter
reference (1), it is basically indicating that there is an area of 4,438m2 ready for you to commence with
your works. Even if we accept your stated quantity, it is evident that there are indeed enough open
areas to proceed. Moreover, your comments that areas are obstructed from other trades are refuted.
Hence, please be informed that the same principles stated above with respect to the quantities,
available work-fronts, also apply to your comments under CP L2.0, which consequently similarly apply to
your comment about the materials in stock.
Generally, you seem to allege in many instances in your letters about the lack of work-fronts. However,
please be informed that once the screed works are completed and the curing period of fourteen (14)
days has passed, you are required to immediately proceed with the stone installation. In many
instances, you have failed to proceed expeditiously and without delay and due to your failure, other
trades had proceeded accordingly to commence with their works. Therefore, you are requested to take
appropriate action and proceed immediately once the screed is ready for stone installation. To ensure
compliance of the aforementioned you will need to methodically plan your works and coordinate with

us and the other trades as per your contractual obligation pursuant but not limited to Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors].
In view of the above, you are instructed to ensure that all available resources, particularly manpower
are available on site. Therefore, please assign adequate manpower to recover your own delays and
provide us the current progress and anticipated completion dates for your works.
We acknowledge that the Subcontract Completion date has passed and we reiterate once again that the
Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion and your prolongation costs submissions are subject to
the Engineer’s determination. Consequently, a response will be provided once the Engineer provides its
Determination and/or a response to the same.
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issue, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.
Yours faithfully,
