Subject Processor Front Fa~ade (PrO} Corner Construction- Follow Up HSE Man~ger
Dear Sir,
We refer to the above correspondence (1) regarding the Processor Front Fa~ade (PrD) Corner
Construction- Follow Up.
The Engineer has the following comments for the various points raised in your correspondence above
and maintaining the same sequence:
1. The Contractor's statements are unsubstantiated and we record that should the Contractor do
not acquire approval for the installation methodology; then the works being carried out are at
the Contractor's risk. Pursuant to Project Specification 084402 Processor Wall Cladding, item 12:
Installation, the Contractor shall obtain approval before undertaking works. We reiterate that
the Contractor has failed to secure approval to the methodology.
2. Please note that DS/0401/8534 was rejected by the Design Consultant because "the loading
onto the permanent structure from the Contractor's proposed temporary works exceeds the
design limits. Contractor to propose an alternative". The Contractor decided to ignore the review
comment and erected the scaffolding despite the rejected calculation.
3. Your installation methodology was not implemented; all the changes should have been
incorporated in the installation methodology and submitted for an approval before undertaking
works as per Project Specification 084402.
4. Please refer to the below table summarizing your lack of compliance with the Project

Specifications, 5. Noted, however, you should ensure that you secure all necessary approvals before
proceeding
to the next stage activity in order to ensure a timely completion and avoid protracted several
inspections.
6. The Engineer's comments are based on site observations against the approved installation
methodology which has not been followed.
7. Please refer to point 2, the Engineer has nothing more to add other than the Contractor elected
to proceed with a methodology that is rejected by the Engineer.
Both the Employer and the Engineer commented during a number of site walks that you may utilize rope
access installers in the same manner as P3 zone panels installation was completed or use MEWP's in the
same manner as you completed P2N glass installation after dismantling the scaffolding which is well
documented by site photographs. The Contractor should carefully study and implement the safe and
most appropriate way of accessing the work fronts.
The Engineer cannot comment on the gaps between the glass being 20-25 mm as to date you haven't
offered these works for inspection. However, the Engineer has issued a Site Observation Report
recording lack of alignment that remains unattended. Furthermore, the Contractor proceeded with P2S
corner fac;:ade installation out of installation sequence which remains incomplete and there are no
shop
drawings available to demonstrate the design changes.
The Contractor has decided to dismantle the scaffolding and utilize MEWP'S. We note that you
completed the fac;:ade erection {P2N) using MEWPS. 8. Please note that during the site walk that
included both the Employer and the Contractor's
Management it was agreed that all fa~ade panels installation will be completed by 31st May
2017, excluding circa 260 panels located in P3 Zone" crown Section only". As of 21st February
2018 the P2S corner was still incomplete and you advised that glass will be available in January
2018. But as of 25 February 2018 there are no resources mobilized to finish glass installation.
We record that the Contractor has elected to proceed with out of sequence installations as a
result, the completion of the fa~ade is delayed from 31st May 2017(excluding the P3 crown) to
March 2018.
9. The Engineer disagrees with your unfounded allegations towards the Engineer and the Design
Consultant. The Contractor should proceed with the work in line with approved methodology
and as stated in point 8 above the completion of the PrO fa~ade is delayed due to delivery of the
glass.
10. The Engineer rejects the Contractor's position as the fa~ade is incomplete till date as stated
above.
11. We note that Point 11 is missed or omitted in your letter.
12. As stated above, the fa~ade remains incomplete and as per the Contractor's statement glass
delivery is scheduled in January 2018. The Contractor did not provide a response to the
Engineer's I Design Consultant's correspondence referenced in correspondence (1) dated 12
August 2017.
The Contractor's letter (1) neither addresses the Engineer's concerns nor provides any justification in
relation to the Contractor's statements and does not provide any explanation regarding the target dates

which have been missed by circa 11 months. The Engineer highlights that as of 25 February 2018 the
Rejection Notice letter MTB-CMA-0401-LTR-07833 remains open.
Yours faithfully,
