Subject: Clause 27.1.1- Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 909- Delayed I Unreasonable Status Code 3
responses to various Shop Drawing Submittals - GA Layout Plans
Dear Sir,
to Public Male and Female Toilets, plus enlarged water supply and drainage
layout plans to slab at Level L2.0 of the Central Space Area (received in the
period between 25 September 2017 and 01 October 2017)
We refer to the Engineer's letter ref: (1) issued in response to our Delay Notice No. 909, ref: (2).
We are fully aware of the contents of Specification Section 013300 'Submittal Procedures', in particular,
the provisions of Article 1.3A3 'Processing time', which places an express obligation upon the Engineer
to
respond to Shop Drawing Submittals (SDSs) within certain specified 'review times', and, in respect of 2
out
of the 3 SDSs subject to Delay Notice No. 909, the Engineer failed to do. We are not aware however, of
any obligation-or requirement for us to "demonstrate that shop drawings have been submitted in a
timely
manner" as alleged by the Engineer, and note that the Engineer's letter ref: (1) is completely devoid of
any
evidence in support of a purported failure to do so in respect of submittals referenced in letter ref: (2).
On the contrary, not only did the Engineer fail to respond to 2 out of the 3 SDSs listed in Annex A to
letter
ref: (2) [which triggers an automatic entitlement to an extension to the Time for Completion], but Annex
B
contains details in support of the Engineer's unreasonable Status Code 3 comments in response to all 3
SDSs which caused us unnecessary additional time [and expense] in having to re-submit Shop Drawings
In view of this, all 'our rights and entitlements to recover the associated additional time and costs
resulting
from the events and circumstances giving rise to delay detailed in Delay Notice No. 909 (ref: 2) remain.
Further, on the basis that the events subject to Delay Notice No. 909 were triggered after 1 August
2017,
then any resultant impact on the critical path due to the breach of Contract and /or the acts of
prevention
on the part of the Engineer and/or Employer's Design Consultant described in letter ref: (2), will be
identified within the forthcoming consolidated Time Impact Analysis (TIA) to be issued in due course.
Yours faithfully,
