Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0209
Power Supply & Distribution Box/Consumer Unit serving Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP) to FIDS
– Request for IFC Drawings & Engineer’s Instruction
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of E-Notice No. 0209 (ref: 2) in which you aver inter
alia that as the event was a known event prior to the effective date of SAA8 there is no entitlement to
any additional time and / or cost, and our request for an Engineer’s Instruction is rejected.
For the reasons comprehensively set out in Annex A to letter (2) we disagree; and it is clearly evident
you have elected to ignore the content of our notice and/or missed the crux of the issue entirely.
The facts of the matter remain as follows:
•
On 31 May 2017, we raised RFI/0401/14089 requesting updated small power layouts with
power circuits for a number of items, including Dynamic Signs / FIDS and Fibre Consolidation Points
(FCP).
•
As part of the reply received on 2 July 2017, the Employer’s Design Consultant [KPF] advised:
“The Dynamic Signs that are to be connected to the 18 feeders available under [Bulletin] B227 are
shown on the attached sketches” while “The power supply to the FCPs ... will be further detailed in the
ongoing exercise that will be sent to the Contactor in due course for levels L0.0 and L2.0.”
•
On 7 August 2017, we received a Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/14089, in which KPF advised us
that “where ‘Future Provision’ is indicated … Contractor needs to install necessary containment to the
Dynamic Sign Location,” while in relation to the Fibre Consolidation Points, KPF advised: “The power
supply to the FCPs [for levels L0.0 and L2] ... is … detailed in the [attached] spreadsheet …”
•
The spreadsheet shows FCPs referring to ‘Future Provision (Bulletin 227.1 not issued)’; in other
words, the requirements remained unclear and the electrical design was not yet available; hence it was
reasonable to assume that details of the ‘power supply to the FCPs ... will be further detailed” as part of
“the ongoing exercise” and would be issued in due course as part of Bulletin 227.1.
However, Bulletin 227.1 was never issued.
•
On 5 September 2017 we advised you Power layouts were not included in the Rev. 01 response
and urged you to “issue IFC documents immediately to allow us to proceed engineering …and
procurement” and “FCP / outdoor access points …. are missing on the layouts …”
•
On 14 May 2018 you advised us the final load design of the distribution boards was closed in
BP66; while the location of the FCP/outdoor access units were determined based on heat map studies.
Again, you failed to provide the requisite IFC Drawings.
•
On 29 April 2018, we raised RFI/0401/16011 entitled ‘Requirement for Additional FCP Data
points for Outdoor Wifi locations in Level 0.0’, in which we recorded that outdoor wi-fi access points had
been provisioned in order to meet the wi-fi coverage requirements. We further recorded that there was
currently no provision for the related data outlets shown on any of the IFC Drawings.
•
We advised: “In order to activate the Wifi access points, additional FCP data points along with
related Power and FCP switch will be required to establish the network connectivity for the Wifi” and
requested you provide us updated IFC Drawings showing the related FCP data outlets.
•
You responded on 22 May 2018. The response stated:
The location of the supporting services for Wifi (power and data) is our responsibility.
The location of the WiFi is our choice.

Provision of power and data is our responsibility.
Should a WiFi device require new power and data, we were to relocate and coordinate.
•
While we are clear about the requirements relating to the power and data provisions for the
Wifi, the response completely overlooked what was being asked in relation to the power supply
requirements for the additional FCPs; there was no mention whatsoever regarding the FCPs.
Again, you failed to provide the requisite IFC Drawings.
•
The matter however fell silent until receipt of your e-mail dated 25 June 2019 issued in relation
to the ‘External FIDS / IP65 Enclosure’, where you advised that “you are to follow the IFC …”
•
Following which, on 29 December 2020, you then wrote informing us that:
“The delivery of the Wi-Fi and Security equipment (Cameras) functionality is to be treated separately
from the external Signage Power (Bulletin 227 Rev 001) given the fact that the Contractor was fully
aware that the FCP needed power to deliver the full functionality of the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi as
per the DPS Specification which was never descoped.”
•
You have since repeated this exact same sentence in your letter ref: (1).
As noted in our letter (ref: 2): we are fully aware the FCP needs power to deliver the full functionality of
the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi. This is not the issue. The issue is the lack of IFC Drawings showing the
power supply requirements for the additional FCPs located within the FIDS. As was clearly set out in
letter ref: (2): Given the continued absence of us being provided any IFC Drawings, then how are we to
know what those power requirements are in terms of cabling and consumer units etc.?
It is patently clear that rather than address the issue and provide us the updated IFC Drawings, you have
elected to ignore the evidence of fact described above or missed the crux of the issue entirely.
Our position remains as set out in letter ref (2). we have no design liability under the Contract to design
the power supply requirements for the FCP devices in the external signage, and urge you to liaise with
the Employer’s Design Consultant, KPF, whose liability this is, and between you, provide us properly
coordinated and fully detailed IFC Drawings reflecting the FCP power provisions under cover of an EI.
However, despite our repeated requests, including without limitation, those raised on 31 May 2017, 5
September 2017 and 29 April 2018 [described above], you have consistently failed to provide the IFC
Drawings showing the power supply requirements for the additional FCPs located within the FIDS.
It is because of these failures [acts of prevention] on your part and the part of the Employer’s Design
Consultant that this issue cannot possibly be construed as forming part of the ‘Included Circumstances’
per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8. As previously stated in ref: (2); SAA8 cannot reasonably be interpreted as
requiring us to absorb delays of unknown (possibly unlimited) duration occurring pre/post 4 September
2018, particularly where the resolution of the matter causing the delay remains with the Employer / the
Employer’s Personnel / the Consultants. We remind you that the Employer’s Design Consultant
previously assured us in its Rev 00 and Rev. 01 responses to RFI/0401/14089 that the power supply to
the FCPs would be “further detailed …in due course”, while the response to RFI/0401/16011 ignored our
request to be provided with updated IFC Drawings showing the related FCP data outlets entirely.
The continued failure on your / the Employer’s Design Consultant’s part to provide us with IFC Drawings
in confirmation of the power supply cables and distribution box/consumer units serving the FCPs to the
FIDS to Levels L0.00 and L2.0, is continuing to affect commissioning of the security cameras and Wi-Fi;
and will invariably impact on our ability to obtain the Building Completion certificate (BCC). This is
essential to achieving Milestone MS09B and will invariably impact MS09C (Substantial Completion).
Consequently, and contrary to your assertion in letter ref: (1), our E-Notice No. 0209 does have merit.
In view of this, then we maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event described in letter ref: (2).
Yours faithfully,
