Subject Contractor's Claims Notices
Dear Sir,
This has reference to correspondence (1) above, regarding the Contractor's submitted Delay Notices
and we note that to date we have not received any Time Impact Analyses (TIA's) in order to enable us
to assess the Contractors' allegations with respect to the alleged delays. We note that without the
contractually required TIA's for each of the submitted delay notices, and as you are aware, there can
be no demonstration of the contractual validity of the alleged Employer caused delay events.
In respect of the above, we summarise in Table 1 below the Contractor's relevant obligations in
relation to notification and provision of further particulars and information in relation to the prevailing
Conditions of Contract.
TABLE 1
Clause Reference
27.1.1
27.1.5
Description
Notify the Engineer of an event giving rise to
an entitlement to any extension of the Time
for Completion, reimbursement of
additional Costs, an adjustment to the

Contract Price and or any other costs or
damages.
Provide a fully detailed claim including full
supporting particulars of any extension of
the Time for Completion, reimbursement of
additional Costs, an adjustment to the
Contract Price and or any other costs or
damages, to which he may consider himself
entitled in order that such submission may
be investigated at the time.
Timescale
Within 28 days after the
Contractor becoming aware, or
should have been aware, of
such event having first arisen.
Within 42 days, or such other
reasonable time as may be
approved by the Engineer, after
notification submitted to the
Engineer
27.1.5 (b) For ongoing issues, provide interim At intervals of not more than
particulars of any extension of the Time for monthly.
Completion, reimbursement of additional
Costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price
and or any other costs or damages to which
he may consider himself entitled.
27.1.5 (c) For ongoing issues, provide final particulars Within not more than 14 days
of any extension of the Time for from the end of the effects
Completion, reimbursement of additional resulting from the event.
costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price
and or any other costs or damages to which
he may consider himself entitled
27.2.1 Prepare and provide to the Engineer a time Within 28 days after submitting
impact analysis, demonstrating the effect a claim request, as per 27.1.1
and consequences of the events and periods
of delay relied upon.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has complied with their Contract
obligations in relation to the provision of further particulars and information for any of their submitted
notices and request that the Contractor comply with the Contract in this regard.
Further, you are once again reminded that for each separate notified event, the Contractor must
provide a singular Time Impact Analysis strictly in accordance with the requirements of the Contract,
to demonstrate the impact, if any, on the Programme's Critical Path at the time of the event or
circumstance giving rise to a claim in the Contractor's opinion. This must then be followed by a fully
detailed claim in accordance with the requirements of the Contract, as stated above. The same has
been requested in correspondence (1) but no action was evidenced.
Moreover, and in order to avoid any future misunderstanding, we wish to re-confirm that the previous
unacceptable practice by the Contractor of providing 'Consolidated Delay Analyses' and global claims
is contrary to the requirements of the contract and will not be accepted.

Yours faithfully,
