Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0209
Power Supply & Distribution Box/Consumer Unit serving Fibre Consolidation Points (FCP) to FIDS
– Request for IFC Drawings & Engineer’s Instruction
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of E-Notice No. 0209 (ref: 2) in which you contend that
we ought to have been fully aware that the “FCP needed power to deliver the full functionality of the
Security Cameras and Wi-Fi” and as the event was a known event prior to the Effective Date of SAA8,
including your assertion that it constituted a ‘dispute, difference and controversy’, we are not entitled to
any additional time and / or cost, and our request for an Engineer’s Instruction is rejected.
For the reasons comprehensively set out in our letter ref: (2) and summarised herein, we disagree.
As noted in our letter (ref: 2), and summarised in Annex A hereto, the fact that the FCP needs power to
deliver functionality to the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi is not the issue; the absence of IFC Drawings
showing what the specific power supply requirements for the additional FCPs located within the FIDS is.
It is for this reason that we raised two RFIs [as well as a series of reminders], requesting information
from you in support of the power supply requirements for the FCPs: firstly, because it is not shown on
any IFC Drawing; and secondly, we are not the designers for the Project; the Employer’s Design
Consultant is; it is not for us to guess or otherwise assume what those power supply requirements are.
However, despite our repeated requests, including without limitation, those raised on 31 May 2017, 5
September 2017 and 29 April 2018, we have not yet been provided the requisite information. For
example, the Employer’s Design Consultant assured us in his Rev 00 response to RFI/0401/14089 that
the power supply to the FCPs would be “further detailed …in due course”; while the attachment to the
Rev. 01 response, clearly stated it would be subject to “future provision” (refer to Figure 1 below)
leading us to conclude that it would be detailed at some, but yet indeterminate point in the future.
Figure 1
We then wrote again vide RFI/0401/16011 requesting updated IFC Drawings showing the related FCP
data outlets. However, in its response, the Employer’s Design Consultant ignored our request entirely.
It was therefore reasonable to conclude that in light of the previous Rev. 00 and Rev. 01 responses to
RFI/0401/14089, that the power supply requirements to the FCPs was indeed a “future provision” but
on the basis it had not been instructed, was not part of the MTB scope. We were led to believe this was
your position also; particularly when you consider that the following quantities of Electrical Load
Schedules, Shop Drawings and Electrical Work Inspection Requests (WIR) for the Signage have all been
approved by you but are absent any comment whatsoever on the “future” power supplies to the FCPs:
1.
14 Electrical Load Schedules of external panels;
2.
35 Shop Drawings of external electrical services; and
3.
743 Electrical WIRs.

Detailed particulars for each of the above approval mechanisms for Levels L0.0 and L2.0 are provided for
information and reference in Annex B hereto (annotated as Annex B1, B2, and B3, respectively).
However, in complete ignorance of the prevailing facts, you have since communicated your “position” in
letter dated 29 December 2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11210), and again in letter ref: (1), stating
that we ought to have been “aware that the FCP needed power to deliver the full functionality of the
Security Cameras and Wi-Fi”, and inferring that we are somehow responsible for the design and the
completion of that design where information is not shown on the Drawings. Firstly, this dismissive
response conveys a distinct failure on your part to fully understand the issue at hand, i.e. understand
the Employer’s power supply requirements for the FCPs to the FIDS. Secondly, your response conveys a
failure on your part to manage the Employer’s Design Consultant to meet those requirements and
rather than urge the Employer’s Design Consultant to provide the information necessarily required for
us to undertake and complete this work, you have allowed the Employer’s Design Consultant to avoid
any responsibility; and in failing to recognise what the issue is and taking firm action, you are effectively
allowing the responsibility for the design, and the completion of that design, to be transferred to us. We
are not the designer for the Project, the Employer’s Design Consultant is. It is his responsibility.
Moreover, in light of the facts described in letter ref: (2) and summarised in Annex A hereto, we fail to
see how you can deem this to be part of the ‘Included Circumstances’ as defined within Clause 1.7.4 of
SAA8. Firstly, the Employer’s Design Consultant’s initial Rev. 0 response to RFI/0401/14089 advised us
that the power supply to the FCPs would be “further detailed …in due course”. It was not. Secondly, the
Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/14089 referred to an attached schedule which expressly stated that the
power supplies were subject to “Future Provision” and in particular Bulletin 227.1. This was never
issued. Thirdly, the response to our further request via RFI/0401/16011 was ignored [the reference to
the provision of power being our responsibility in fact relates to the Wi-Fi, not the FCPs to the FIDs].
Therefore, while acknowledging that your Rev. 00 and Rev. 01 provided responses to RFI/0401/14089,
and the provided response to RFI/0401/16011, were all issued in the period prior to the ‘Effective date’
included in SAA7, they: (1) failed to address what was being requested at the time; and (2), in the case
of RFI/0401/14089, the Rev. 00 and Rev. 01 responses, referred to further details being provided in “due
course” and cited “future provision”. Therefore, as previously conveyed in ref: (2); SAA8 cannot
reasonably be interpreted as requiring us to absorb delays of unknown (possibly unlimited) duration
occurring both pre and post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the matter causing
the delay remains with the Employer and / or the Employer’s Personnel and / or the Consultants.
Moreover, while we may have been seeking information vide RFI/0401/14089 and RFI/0401/16011 in
the period leading to SAA8, which the Employer’s Design Consultant said would be provided in “due
course” or subject to “future provision”, this cannot reasonably be interpreted as being tantamount to a
‘dispute, difference and controversy’ per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8 (‘Included Circumstances’) highlighted by
you in letter ref: (1). No ‘dispute’, ‘difference’ or ‘controversy’ existed on this issue prior to SAA8.
What is clear however, is rather than urge the Employer’s Design Consultant to take proactive action,
and address the matters required of it, in terms of providing us the requisite IFC Drawings showing the
power supply requirements to the FCPs, you have consistently prevaricated and delayed matters also.
The continued failure on your part and that of the Employer’s Design Consultant’s in issuing us the IFC
Drawings in confirmation of the power supply cables and distribution box/consumer units for the FCPs
to the FIDS to Levels L0.00 and L2.0, is continuing to affect commissioning of the security cameras and
Wi-Fi. This will invariably impact on our ability to obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is
essential in achieving Milestone MS09B and will invariably impact MS09C (Substantial Completion).
Consequently, and contrary to your assertion in letter ref: (1), our E-Notice No. 0209 does have merit.
Moreover, in response to your further comment about E-Notice No. 0209 not forming part of any of the
submitted TIAs, given that E-Notice No. 0209 was notified on 29 January 2020, then its falls outside of
the period covered by our most recently submitted TIA (i.e. TIA No. 4 Post SAA8). The effects of delay

associated with E-Notice No. 0209 will however be considered as part of TIA No. 5 – Post SAA8, which
will cover delaying events occurring in the period from 2 December 2019 to 1 February 2020.
In view of this, then we maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event described in letter ref: (2).
Annex A
Summary of the Salient Points described in E-Notice No. 0209
The facts remain as follows:
•
On 31 May 2017, we raised RFI/0401/14089 requesting updated small power layouts with
power circuits for a number of items, including Dynamic Signs / FIDS and Fibre Consolidation Points
(FCP).
•
As part of the reply received on 2 July 2017, the Employer’s Design Consultant [KPF] advised:
“The Dynamic Signs that are to be connected to the 18 feeders available under [Bulletin] B227 are
shown on the attached sketches” while “The power supply to the FCPs ... will be further detailed in the
ongoing exercise that will be sent to the Contactor in due course for levels L0.0 and L2.0.”
•
On 7 August 2017, we received a Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/14089, in which KPF advised us
that “where ‘Future Provision’ is indicated … Contractor needs to install necessary containment to the
Dynamic Sign Location,” while in relation to the Fibre Consolidation Points, KPF advised: “The power
supply to the FCPs [for levels L0.0 and L2] ... is … detailed in the [attached] spreadsheet …”
•
The spreadsheet shows FCPs referring to ‘Future Provision (Bulletin 227.1 not issued)’; in other
words, the requirements remained unclear and the electrical design was not yet available; hence it was
reasonable to assume that details of the ‘power supply to the FCPs ... will be further detailed” as part of
“the ongoing exercise” and would be issued in due course as part of Bulletin 227.1.
However, Bulletin 227.1 was never issued.
•
On 5 September 2017 we advised you Power layouts were not included in the Rev. 01 response
and urged you to “issue IFC documents immediately to allow us to proceed engineering …and
procurement” and “FCP / outdoor access points …. are missing on the layouts …”
•
On 14 May 2018 you advised us the final load design of the distribution boards was closed in
BP66; while the location of the FCP/outdoor access units were determined based on heat map studies.
Again, you failed to provide the requisite IFC Drawings.
•
On 29 April 2018, we raised RFI/0401/16011 entitled ‘Requirement for Additional FCP Data
points for Outdoor Wifi locations in Level 0.0’, in which we recorded that outdoor wi-fi access points had
been provisioned in order to meet the wi-fi coverage requirements. We further recorded that there was
currently no provision for the related data outlets shown on any of the IFC Drawings.
•
We advised: “In order to activate the Wifi access points, additional FCP data points along with
related Power and FCP switch will be required to establish the network connectivity for the Wifi” and
requested you provide us updated IFC Drawings showing the related FCP data outlets.
•
You responded on 22 May 2018. The response stated:
The location of the supporting services for Wifi (power and data) is our responsibility.
The location of the WiFi is our choice.
Provision of power and data is our responsibility.
Should a WiFi device require new power and data, we were to relocate and coordinate.
•
While we are clear about the requirements relating to the power and data provisions for the
Wifi, the response completely overlooked what was being asked in relation to the power supply
requirements for the additional FCPs; there was no mention whatsoever regarding the FCPs.
Again, you failed to provide the requisite IFC Drawings.
•
The matter however fell silent until receipt of your e-mail dated 25 June 2019 issued in relation
to the ‘External FIDS / IP65 Enclosure’, where you advised that “you are to follow the IFC …”

•
Following which, on 29 December 2020, you then wrote informing us that:
“The delivery of the Wi-Fi and Security equipment (Cameras) functionality is to be treated separately
from the external Signage Power (Bulletin 227 Rev 001) given the fact that the Contractor was fully
aware that the FCP needed power to deliver the full functionality of the Security Cameras and Wi-Fi as
per the DPS Specification which was never descoped.”
•
You have since repeated this exact same sentence in your letter ref: (1).
Yours faithfully,
