Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0216
GF Signage WIR at C11 Hold Room 501 – Unreasonable Status Code 3 Comment on WIR-FIN-36699 –
Request for Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described in
Annex A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concerns delays to the Works due to the Engineer’s unreasonable
Code 3 response to WIR-FIN-36699 associated with a request to clarify the correct location of signage.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 14 November 2020, we received your Status Code 3 response to Work Inspection Request (WIR) No:
WIR-FIN-36699 Rev. 01 pertaining to ‘Installation of Signage Structure with Fascia, utilities & equipment
except FIDS type GF (WF-PC-L2.0-37, WF-PC-L2.0-039) – Ground mounted in Pier 2 L20, Room 0832,

Pavilion C11, Holdroom C39, Grid Lines E28 – E23’. [TCA JV – if this issue relates to C39 and C41 signage
than why are the e-mails between you and CMA entitled Signage at C11 Holdroom? Please clarify]
The CMA Inspector Comments are reproduced in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1
Particular attention is drawn to the penultimate comment (item 8) which states: “C39 & C41 signage are
installed at the Holdroom/Gatehouse # C39, contractor to clarify which is the correct signage.”
We are surprised to receive such a comment, i.e. requesting us to “clarify which is the correct signage”
especially considering that the signage has been installed in accordance with the IFC Design Drawings.
Our e-mail dated 21 January 2020 [8:17 AM] is synonymous with this very point; recording that having
followed the IFC and approved Shop Drawings, “can you please clarify why we are getting code 3?”
However, in your subsequent e-mail dated 2 February 2020 you advised the following:
“We have done our inspection and we address the comments and we done a follow up site walk on site
found the same. We are clarifying the correct signage to be installed on site.
The installation is as per IFC and approved shop drawing, however the actual installation is incorrect
signage pertaining to the actual area.
Can you please provide any documents other than the IFC and Shop Drawing, e.g RFI is any.”
We are appreciably confused by this statement. On the one hand, you acknowledge “The installation is
as per IFC and approved shop drawing” yet on the other hand you state that “the actual installation is
incorrect signage pertaining to the actual area”. Either the signage is correctly installed in the correct
area as per the IFC Drawings and approved Shop Drawings, or it has not. In our view, it has. However,
this comment appears to suggest otherwise. And we fail to see the relevance of providing “any RFI”?
If you allege that the installation of noted signage is incorrect in any way, either in terms of the physical
installation and / or the area or location where it is installed, then the burden of proof remains on you
to support such allegation and to specify – in clear unambiguous language – how it is incorrect?
However, in your e-mail dated 2 February 2020 you failed to do so. This caused us to raise a further email dated 2 February 2020 [2:21 PM] asking you to clarify how the signage installation is wrong:
‘We are following official documents and IFC and SD are official documents. Please provide us an official
document showing that these signage installation is wrong.’
This is not an unreasonable request to make. It is unfortunate therefore than rather than issue a clear
definitive response, your further e-mail dated 2 February 2020 [4:57 PM] states [ambiguously]
‘The official documents that we provided is the comments on WIR, we already done the inspection via
WIR. Please comply with our comments and justify.’
We are extremely surprised by your response. We simply made the point that we have complied with
the IFC and Shop Drawings – which we consider to be ‘official documents’ – yet you refer back to the
WIR? To put it simply, you have issued a comment in reply to WIR-FIN-36699 Rev. 01 regarding either
the alleged incorrect installation or location of the signage. All we asked was for you to clarify how the
signage installation or location is incorrect. We have advised you that we have complied with the IFC
Design Drawings and approved Shop Drawings, yet you continually fail in advising us that it is incorrect.
However, having challenged your Code 3 comment asking for direction, not only you have asked us to
provide any RFI or other documents in order for you to justify why the signage is incorrect, but expect us
to comply with your comments and for us to justify why the signage location or area is incorrect.
At the risk of being repetitive, if you allege that the installation of the noted signage is incorrect in any
way, either in terms of the physical installation and / or the area or location where it is installed, then
the burden of proof remains on you to support such allegation and to specify how it is incorrect. It is not
for us to try and interpret, second guess or assume what you mean, when your directions are unclear.
Please therefore address this matter forthwith and if any change is required to the location and / or the
installation of the noted signage, then you are requested to issue us an EI and / or variation Order.

Meanwhile, until such time as further clarity is provided by you in respect of this signage, then this WIR
remains open and the act of prevention on your part will no undoubtedly contribute in delaying the
close out of inspections of the signage within the Terminal Building. If this continues, then this will
invariably impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B and Substantial Completion (MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
