Subject Clause 27.1.5 (a) - Interim Particulars of the Basis of Claim - Delay Notice No. 990 Movement in Side Pavilion Primary Steel Members - Failure to Address Design Errors
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted the Interim
Particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 990 issued via (3).
We remind the Contractor that pursuant to Clause 1.3, A1 of Section 055000 and Clause 1.3, A1 Section
066116 of the Specifications the Contractor is responsible for the design of the connections and fixing
for metal fabrications as well as for solid surface fabrications and related elements, including interfaces
and coordination with work of adjoining trades in order to satisfy the performance requirements in
accordance with the Contract documents.
Furthermore, we record that to date, the Contractor has not evidenced its allegation with regards to the
alleged design error and has not provided any substantiation to this effect.
Notwithstanding the Engineer's position that the Contractor has no entitlement in relation to this Claim,
we also record that the Contractor in correspondence (1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged
delay to its programme and furthermore has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements (Clause

1.3.7). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis as required under Clause
27 .2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
In addition to the above, the Contractor has failed to comply with the provisions of Clause 27.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract to submit full supporting particulars of the basis of the claim.
In light of the above, we consider that the Contractor has not substantiated any entitlement to an
Extension to the Time for Completion.

Subject :Renewal of Performance Bond

Dear Sir,
We write with regards to your Performance Bond (Guarantee No: PEBDUB043754), noting the expiration
of its validity on 27th February 2018.
Please renew your Performance Bond as per the following details,
•
Substantial Completion: 30th June 2019
•
Defect Liability Period (DLP): 21 Months
•
Performance Certificate will be issued within forty-two (42) Days after the expiry date of the
Defect Liability Period, or as soon thereafter as the Subcontractor has fulfilled all of its obligations under
the Subcontract, including the completion of any work which was outstanding or required rectification
on the date stated in a Taking Over Certificate and/or the remedying and retesting of any defects,
deficiencies and/or damage notified by the Contractor pursuant to clause 19.1.2.
Therefore, your Performance Bond should be extended until the date which the Contractor received the
Performance Certificate.
This is for your immediate action and attention.

Yours Faithfully,
