Subject: Notice of Delay for Sub-Subcontractor Performance CAL REV AMI)
Dear Sir.
In reference to the above mentioned subject you are hereby notified pursuant to Conditions of
Subcontract issued during Tender and embodied in the above LOA - Appendix B- item 8 subclause
12.10.1 for the failure of your Sub-Subcontractor AI Reyami to fulfil their commitment to
fabricate the Arches 9 to 12 and PG 5 & 6 Cruciform works as per the agreed schedules.
We refer you the delivery dates comparison of AI Reyami (Refer Attachment -1) which we have
prepared as acquired from email received from you or on agreed dates during fabrication
meetings (Refer Attachment -2) implicating the aforementioned delays. Please be advised that
agreed delivery dates considered in delay calculations is from your schedules in which we
considered that there are no more issues holding you to complete the fabrication and delivery of
these elements on the site.
Further to the above delay analysis from previous deliveries. please find below remarks for the due and
to
become due deliveries as indicated above on items 5 to 7 whereas;
S:.ARCH 12 Transitions- this elements was already due since 25 July 2015 but till date 25 August 2014 no

delivery was received from esc which is delaying the erection schedule due to the
lack of manpower of your Sub-Subcontractor to fabricate this elements.
6. ARCH 13 Transitions - Delay in the above ARCH 12 elements will automatically delay the fabrication of
this
ARCH 13 elements as per the fabrication schedule sequence.
7. PG-6 Cruciform - This element must be delivered to site on 10 Sept. 2014 in order not to delay
erection. But due to the current incapacity of AI Reyami to fabricate because of
lack of manpower you have decided to complete this element using your other
Sub-Subcontractor Tiger Steel. As a consequence of your decision, shifting of
material from AI Reyami to Tiger Steel factory consume a lot of time which greatly
impact the fabrication of this element. You are reminded that this major fabrication
delay will impact the completion date of PG 6 and accordingly SG 56 erection.
Delay in the secondary girder erection has direct effect to the de-propping of first
zone.
Referring to the above delays due the poor performance of your Sub-subcontractor relating to its
incapability to provide adequate manpower to achieve their fabrication and delivery
commitments, you are hereby instructed to take the necessary action pursuant to Conditions of
Subcontract embodied in the above LOA -sub-clause 12.10.2 wherein;
12. I 0.2 The Subcontractor shall, upon receipt of the notice referred to above in clause 12. I 0. I, ensure
that
the Sub-subcontractor's performance is immediately rectified.
More over to the above presented previous and upcoming delays due to your Sub-subcontractors
poor performance which lead to your failure to fulfil your commitment for the timely delivery of the
above Erection Segments you are required pursuant to Clause 16.4.1 (b) of the Conditions of
Subcontract, to submit a revised recovery programme and supporting report describing the
revised methods which you propose to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete the
Sub-Contract Works within the Sub-Contract Time for Completion.
You are required to submit this revised recovery programme and supporting report within seven
(7) days of this request. in addition to all required submittals for construction activities at
site/factory, method statements, shop drawings and WIRs, in order to avoid further delays to the
Project.
Please note that in accordance with Clause 16.4.4 the provision of a revised programme and
supporting report is a "condition precedent" to the Sub-Contractor's entitlement to continue to be
paid for the performance of the Sub-Contract Works.
In view of the above, you are advised to take immediate steps to recover these delays. You will
be held responsible for any and all Contractor's Delay Costs and Contractor's Delay Damages
that may be inc urred by us due to the above stated delays, in line with the Subcontract Clauses
16.6.1 and 16.6.2 respectively.
Subject: Notice of Delay due to Poor Sub-Subcontractor Performance
Dear Sir,

We write to you with regards to our constant concerns pertaining to your capability to manage your
SubSubcontractor
for the works package of Fire Stopping {CHRONICLE).
Further to our aforementioned letter references, we are once again forced to place on our record of
your
poor performance for the relevant activities. {See Appendix 1) Your failure to manage your
Subcontractor
and that of its inadequate labour resources and engineering issues are completely unacceptable and will
no longer be entertained. The extent of outstanding works to be completed by your Fire Stopping
Specialist Subcontractor is extensive.
The consequences of the highlighted outstanding activities hereunder Appendix-1 have immense impact
on the Consultant approval of inspections and subsequent delays of the room handovers and ceilings
closure.
Therefore and for the record, all costs incurred by us with regards to the secondment of additional
labour
resources to supplement your insufficient workforce will be for your account and in strict accordance
with
that of Clause 10.3 {Contractors Claims) of the Subcontractor Agreement between us. The same will be
subject to 15% Overhead & Profit I Administration Charges.
Yours faithfully,
