Dear Sir,

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 1) in connection
with the ongoing work undertaken by the Contractor and its QRC design consultant whereby the existing

Gold Line mock-up facility is being converted to a temporary exhibition center that shall be open to the
public.

The scope of works as summarized by the Contractor above differs from that set out by the Engineer’s
Assistant via letter reference 1) in which the EA stated that the Contractor is “liaising with their Design
Consultant regarding potential conversion of the temporary mock-up facilities into permanent facilities”.
For the avoidance of doubt the Contractor wishes to clarify the following:

1.
The Contractor and its QRC design consultant are not exploring the possibility of converting the
mock-up into a permanent facility. The Contractor understands that the Employer wishes to operate the
Gold Line mock-up as a temporary exhibition center and hence, its focus has thus far been to develop a
suitable design in pursuit of the necessary approvals / permits by the Qatar Civil Defence Department
(QCDD).

2.
Whilst the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 1) made no distinction between Gold Line and
Major Station facilities, the Contractor’s preliminary investigation of temporary v. permanent power to
the mock-up facilities of letter reference 2) had accounted for both. This however is not the case vis-avis the scope of works outlined in the preceding paragraph which is being undertaken by the Contractor
and its design consultant for to the Gold Line Mock-Up facility only, and not for the Major Stations
facility.

The Contractor encloses herewith as attachment 1) to this letter the preliminary proposal by its design
consultant on the subject. The mandate forming the basis of the said proposal and the ongoing design
development both stem from the Civil Defence requirements enclosed as attachment 2) to this letter –
‘Temporary Buildings in Construction Sites, Revision 2015’.

As a final note, the Contractor kindly requests from the EA to provide clear direction with respect to the
wet sprinkler requirement above the ceiling void spaces. The Contractor was advised by its design
consultant that the wet sprinkler requirement proposed by the Employer could be omitted subject to
the implementation of occupancy load limitations and the deployment of fire wardens.

Following the receipt of an Engineer’s Instruction pursuant to Clause 13 of Volume 3 of the Contract the
Contractor expects roughly 4-5 weeks for design development coupled with another 8-12 weeks for its
procurement, construction and commissioning activities.

Yours faithfully,
