Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0284
Further On-Going Delays to the Completion of the MATV System due to Consequential Delays Incurred
to the MATV System Installation to CUP-01 and the Requirement for Additional Works – Update to ENotice No. 0222
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto provide an update to our E-Notice No. 0222 (ref: 1) and
concern on-going delays and acts of prevention on your part / the part of others, that prevent us
completing the MATV System works. In addition, Annex A also elaborates on our request to hand over
the remaining materials to the Employer’s (ADAC) FM team, so that the remaining scope can be carried
out by others.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
impacting on completion of testing and commissioning. This will invariably impact on our ability to
achieve Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required

We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Introduction
We write further to our E-Notice No. 0222 (ref: 1), notifying you of delays concerning the readiness and
completion of the Master Antenna Television (MATV) System works located at the Central Utility Plant
(CUP-1) which had, and, as noted herein, are continuing to have, a direct and consequential impact on
our progress and will invariably delay completion of the MATV System to the MTB Project.
It is because of your failure to have coordinated the MATV works at CUP-1, following on from the events
described E-Notice No. 0222 and the continuing delays, that causes us to issue this E-Notice No. 0284.
Chronology of Events
Background
For the sake of clarity, we hereby provide below, a brief overview of the events described in our ENotice No. 0222 issued via letter ref: (1), and remind you that this issue is regarding the works
associated with cable pulling, power and data outlets for the installation of the MATV satellite dishes at
CUP-1.
Our scope of work to CUP-1 was originally limited to installation of the MATV satellite dishes to specific
locations at CUP-1, whereas, the cable pulling, power and data outlets were under the scope of the
Employer’s Other Contractor (CUP-1 Contractor). Besides installing the satellite dishes to CUP-1 our
scope also included ‘plugging’ the power and data cables to the existing outlets. However, in or about
April 2018, after numerous workshops between us, you / ADAC, we were ordered to extend and pull the
power and data cables from the Electrical Rooms of the Administration Building located at CUP-1.
As stated in E-Notice No. 0222, and repeated in the footnote below, such works are inextricably linked
with the MTB Project and have to be finalized to enable the MATV system at the MTB Project to work
effectively. However, due to the various acts of prevention on your part and the part of others described
in E-Notice No. 0222 and your failure to issue a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI), the works are delayed.
By way of background, we herewith summarised the matters addressed in E-Notice No. 0222 (ref: 1):
•
The works associated with installation of the MATV system satellite dishes had all but ceased
between 2016 to 2018, due to the fact that the specific location where the dishes were to be installed
could not be finalised and specified between you and the Employer’s Design Consultant;
•
Numerous delays have been caused due to your late and unreasonable Status Code 3 comments
given in response to submittals relevant to this matter i.e. design calculations, shopdrawings etc.;
•
The disagreements between you and the Employer’s Design Consultant on the matter continued
until January 2019;
•
In January 2019, after numerous delays, the location of the MATV dishes was finally concluded
and As-Built Drawings were provided that would enable us to prepare our relevant Shop Drawings. The
dishes were to be located to the external areas on the roof of the concrete walls of CUP-1;
•
Following which we were requested by you / ADAC to extend the power and data cables from
the Guard House Electrical Room to the new location of the MATV dishes, a distance of circa 250 –
300m. This is a considerably long distance, considering the fact that the extension / pulling of the cables
was not initially under our scope of works. These works were essentially agreed to be carried out by us
in good faith, to avoid further delays to the MATV System completion as a whole;

•
After numerous delays on your part in relation to the Engineering process noted above (delayed
and unreasonable comments in Submittals), once all the relevant submittals had been approved by you,
on March 2019 we were ready to proceed with the actual construction works on site;
•
However, your failure to coordinate the works continued, and resulted in yet further delays in
respect of the commencement / construction of the works following on thereafter;
•
Moreover, we were prevented from commencing and our resources could not be mobilised due
to a failure on the part of ADAC’s security team to process security passes for all of the resources that
would be utilised in the CUP-1 works (i.e. manpower, material and plant supplies etc.);
•
The delays relating to the Permit to Work (PTW) were further exacerbated by your unreasonable
requests relating to the ‘appropriate format and forms’ of the PTW;
•
The delays continued added to which, we incurred further delays due to your late response to
approve both, the works which did not require a shutdown of existing live power cables above ground
level and also the underground works which require shutdown of existing cables in the ducts and
manholes that contained existing CCTV live cables feeding cameras in the CUP-1 areas;
•
More delays followed by your unreasonable requests relating to ‘Notice of Interruption’ (NOI);
•
Our construction teams attempted to commence the actual construction works in February
2020, only to discover more difficulties and constraints such as manholes filled with water, incorrect AsBuilt Drawings provided by you, significantly congested ducts with cables etc., all of which were
summarised and submitted to you for clarification via RFI/0401/17775 on 1 March 2020;
•
In addition, not only you delayed to respond to RFI/0401/17775, but your response resulted to
abortive works and/or additional works associated with relocating the satellite dishes etc.;
•
The delays continued after new As-Built Drawings for the CUP-1 CCTV works, were issued by
you, while the underground duct network had to be actually verified on-site with a visual site survey;
•
This led to more delays due to necessary revisions to our relevant Shop Drawings, to match the
actual conditions on site;
We further record that some of the constraints summarised above such as new PTW / NOI requested by
you, incorrect information shown on As-Built Drawings, further site visits for verification, further
changes, introduction of additional works continued to be incurred thereafter (refer to letter ref: 1).
This E-Notice No. 0284
Further to the above, some of the activities associated with the MATV system CUP1 works, have
partially been completed by us. Specifically, we have managed to install the satellite dishes up to the
electrical room at the Guard House. This included pulling power and fibre cables through the manholes.
The termination to the dishes remains to be completed as described below. For that reason, the power
cables are left coiled near the power panel and fiber optic cables are coiled near the patch panel.
We highlight that the termination to the power panel has a high risk due to the fact that this panel
serves critical / vital loads inside the guard house for which we are not aware of the details. We put on
record that this is a risky activity, because a shutdown of the complete power panel is required.
However, we have no information in regards to the loads and what exactly might be affected by the
shutdown.
Moreover, the patch panel mounted inside the Electrical Room is obstructed when the cabinet door
opens. This constraint was highlighted to your / ADAC’s FM teams during a site walk on 8 March 2020.
In addition to the above noted difficulties encountered by us, in order to carry out the scope of works
with respect to the termination to the power panel, new PTW and NOI submissions are required to be
issued by you. Consequently, from our previous experience with respect to the issuance of PTW and
NOI, it is highly likely that further delays will be encountered until the issuance of the PTW and NOI
permits from you. In fact, at the date of writing this E-Notice, we have already incurred and continuing
to incur numerous delays with respect to your failure and the failures of the Employer’s Other
Contractors to coordinate the works as well as to issue the relevant permits i.e. PTW / NOI. We

herewith attach various email correspondences at Annex B that we believe demonstrate the difficulties
we are continuing to encounter due to the failure on your part and the part of Others to coordinate the
works respectively.
In this regard, it is important for you to be reminded again that the extent of our original scope of works
to CUP-1 was limited to installation of the MATV satellite dishes to specific locations at CUP-1. The
extension / pulling of cables, did not form part of our scope of works but we agreed to carry this out in
good faith [as described above as well as in our E-Notice No. 0222]. Our original scope of works was
simply to install the satellite dishes to CUP-1 and ‘plug’ the power and data cables to the existing
outlets.
In the light of the above, we strongly believe that the best solution would be to handover the remaining
materials i.e. circuit breaker, cable glands, fibre patch cords to the Employer’s (ADAC) FM team, so that
the remaining scope can be carried out by others to avoid any further delays and most importantly to
avoid any risks which are associated with the termination to the power panel / power shutdown and any
possible consequences which may be encountered due to the same. We await your comments on this.
Meanwhile, in view of the various events described above, it is evidently clear that the various acts of
prevention on your part and the part of others have caused and continue to cause delays which are not
of our doing or responsibility. Moreover, any of the solutions introduced to the MATV system works
including but not limited to those outlined herein, are additional to our scope and will require a valid
Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order if we are to integrate these same solutions into the Works
In this regard, Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) laid down strict guidelines to
follow if additional works are required. We therefore, take this opportunity in reminding you of the
provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of SAA8 pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to proceed
with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In which
respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate any change to the Works;
this is only after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Therefore, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29
and issue us the EI and VO, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above.
Finally, while we acknowledge that some of the events described above occurred prior to the ‘Effective
Date’ of SAA8 (i.e. 4 September 2018), this cannot possibly be construed as being deemed to be
included within the ‘Contractor’s Settled Claims’ (Sub-Clause 1.7.2) and ‘Included Circumstances’ (SubClause 1.7.4); and will be included within any forthcoming Time Impact Analysis, albeit in recognition of
the Effective Date included in SAA8, any delays will be analysed from 4 September 2018 onwards. SAA8
cannot reasonably be interpreted as requiring the Contractor to absorb delays of unknown (possibly
unlimited) duration occurring pre/post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the
matter causing the delay lies with the Employer. We contend therefore that under the circumstances
the responsibility, under the Contract (as amended by SAA8), for such delays lies with
Yours faithfully,
