Dear Sir,
Notice to correct: Slow Progress, non-performance and Undeliverable Recovery
Plans as of 31st July 2017
We write this notice to record our utmost concern of your continual failure to respond to our repeated
notices
to correct your slow rates of progress and your failure to advise and take remedy actions to correct the
same,
which lead to irrecoverable delays that affected the project and impinged on your contractual and
financial
standing.
We repeat, that it is of paramount importance that you counter this adverse situation by recognising the
key
concerns relayed to you throughout this notice and advice rectification measures within (7 days) of
receiving
this notice, Which should include ;
1. A "Detailed Mitigation and recovery Plan" with supporting report as per Subcontract Clause 16.4.1
2. Deploying additional engineering resources to recover from engineering delays (Shop Drawings, BIM
etc.)
3. Attend a Recovery for Mock-Ups Submission which had exceeded.
4. Complete balance material submission and any balance pre-construction trades.
5. To increase your fabrication and production yield to satisfy site requirements and work fronts.
6. To deploy additional site resources to recover from your low productivity and installation delays.
7. Ensure your progress reporting is accurate and is done with the approved program to stay in control

I
of the project status.
Within the context of the above listed measures, The following sections denote the status of your works
as of
30th July 2017 and accounts for the delays that you will need to address and work towards rectifying
Based on our reco rds (refer to Attachment 1}, your shop drawings approval status as of 31st July 2017
are 3297 drawings out of 4199 total, compared to 3289 drawings on 301h May 2017.
At eight (8) drawings approved between 31't July 2017 and 30th May 2017, this is a slippage from the
previous period's figures, and your progress rate remains below the required rate needed to recover
from the serious delays incurred towards all succeeding phases that follow drawings development.
We advise you to continue to mitigate and recover your shop drawings activities, including adding
resources in an effo rt to aid the recovery process.
A.2) Status Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Our records (Refer to Attachment 2) depict that you have submitted 212 models out of the tot al 247
(85.8% compared to the planned 100%), your BIM model submittal status as of 31st July 2017 is as
follows;
Out of the targeted total of 247 models you have submitted 212 models where 15.3% are approved
models {38 models), 48.6% are partially approved models -code 2*- {120 models), 3% under review
(9 Models), 14.2% not submitted (35 models not yet submitted) and 17.8% are unresolved models
due to your BIM shortfalls (44 models), these figures exclude the omitted items.
In addition to the continuing disturbing status, we flag out that some models has been in an inactive
since twelve months! These models are overdue and reached a critical state were their absence is
preventing Other Subcontractors from proceeding with their coordination models and consequently
their onsite works, particularly the following models;
• Lifts Enclosures models,
• Levels CP 0.0 and CP 0.1 models,

• All models for doors across all piers including gatehouses doors
• Glass Screens models for CP L2 .0 and L3.0
In addition to the belated models mentioned above we also, put on record the following issues that
we raised to you via official BIM transactions (as sighted), but they remain unresolved -some as late
as fourteen months;
This situation has not improved for many months now, and despite our recurrent notices, warning
letters and repeated calls for you to provide an organizational structure for your BIM resources, and to
device a recovery plan to recover from these delays. Unfortunately, we record that you have failed to
carry out any of these instructions, and the BIM models development and coordination state is
continuing to worsen in regards to slippages and time delays.
Considering this poor state of affairs, we reserve our rights to deploy additional BIM resources to aid
you in recovering the long-overdue BIM models, taken into consideration that the additional
resources shall work in tandem with your team and you will be back-charged for these resources
accordingly; nonetheless this this will not alleviate you from your responsibility towards providing
necessary resources to recover from the poor status of progress of the models submission particularly
those that are still unresolved to date (32% or 81 models not yet resolved or not submitted for more
than 12 months now).
A.3) Submittal and Approval of Mock-ups
Our records indicate that as of 301
h July 2017 the following Mock-Ups are still unapproved # MSA,
MSC, M44, M10, M38, M13, M14, El, M45 and M21 to an array of reasons. This status remained
unchanged for the past Fourteen months (ONE YEAR, TWO MONTHS!) despite our numerous notices
over the past periods. (Refer Attachment 3)
Regrettably, you have failed to assign any recovery effort as instructed throughout our previous
instruction, in particular MTB/TCA/ ALGHURAIR/l/000523 and 0664, and your lack of action is causing

unrecoverable slippages to the mock-up approval and subsequently the entire activities that follow
the approved mock-ups namely, Engineering, Procurement, and Installation.
Given that mock-ups are a predecessor to the fabrication and construction of the mock-ups
themselves and actual site construction of the permanent items, and considering that you lost 14
months without resolving mock-up issues, and notwithstanding culpable delays issues; we reiterate
our instruction that you need to take a serious action to address this chronic issue, starting by
assigning an accountable and responsible team to liaison with our construction department to foresee
the resolution of any mock-up residual issues.
Given this state, we are left with no other option but to reserve our right to back charge you towards
any damages direct or otherwise that may be attributed to this long overdue and critically delayed
project deliverable.
B. Delays to Material Submittal, Order and Fabrication
B.1 Material Submittal & Approval
Reference is made to (Attachment 4) that details that as of 301
h July 2017 the remaining materials that
are yet to be submitted and the materials that were submitted but has failed to meet approval
standards
8.2 Material order, Fabrication and Delivery
Our records that pertain to material order and fabrication as of 31st July 2017 (refer to Attachment 5)
indicate that you have cumulatively released 75,208.01m2 for fabrication out of the total glass scope
of 108,000 m2
, and out of that, you have dispatched a mere 44,797.48 m2
•
These figures show that you have redirected some scope from your fabricator "Golden Glass" and
given it to others to fabricate, and despite this we still record that between the 31st July 2017 and 30th

May 2017 (the date of the previous notice), you have only managed to fabricate and dispatch to site
6,470 m2 - or less than 6%- only over 60 days.
C. AGC's Failure to Plan the works and report Status
Our records indicate that you continue to fail to provide us with systematic and coherent updates on
your approved program which run contrary to clause 12.27 of the Subcontract conditions (Progress
Reports); in addition you are still failing to provide proper weekly progress reports.
The lack of proper progress reporting prevents us from establishing your own status as reflected by
your program; it also prevents any tangible assessment of delays and consequently affects the
mitigation timing and quantum. In addition, the applicable claims method for Time Impact Analysis
(Ref. Contract Clause 27 .2) is dependent in its mechanics on the provision of monthly updates of the
program.
Accordingly, we notify you that we reserve our rights to block all preliminaries payments related to
planning and progress monitoring from your progress payments until your deliver on these items as
you expected to, (i.e. planning and progress reporting)
D. On Site Construction and Installation Delays
Your onsite installation figures as of 02"d Aug 2017 are as follows;
Given the noticed delays in Engineering submittals, mock-ups, material fabrication, material delivery,
your construction figures is ought to reflect the same level of poor performance and delays. In figure
terms, the above figures depict is that you have managed to install only 6,598 m2 of glass (6.1%) in 62
days, given that you are yet to complete the remaining 76,8142 m2
, therefore its evident that at rate
of this progress you will surpass the project completion date which is clearly not acceptable .
Your deployment of mitigation measures such as those suggested and listed in the first page of this
notice is imperative to recover from the above-mentioned status and achieve compliance with your
contractual obligations.
E. Failure to substantiate entitlement for claims made for time and money compensation.

Your Submission reference CONQS/DP/RJ/15/0360 dated 141
h of July 2015 remains without any
substantiation entitlement to the claimed time and money despite our requests made through the
referenced notices.
Equally your claim CONQS/AH/OAR/16/0521 was sent without any digital files (later sent by 281
h July
2016 via your transmittal no. 0557) but remains without any substantiation exactly like your previous
claim (ref# 0360).
We have met with your planning and claim team in late Feb 2017 and explained that the lack of
substantiation, cross referencing or any form of evidence to the alleged events is stopping us from
assessing any of them, and overall we cannot commence evaluating the claimed periods and
ultimately. Subsequently no determination from our part on time and costs is possible until such time
where you provide substantiation evidence to these claims. Unfortunately we record that you have
not submitted any substantiation requirements to date.
We reiterate again that the absence of supporting particulars and substantiation evidence, is contrary to
the contract clauses requirement 10.3.3(c), 27.1.3, 27.1.4 and other relevant clauses, and ultimately
prevents the successful assessment of the claim as it will be deemed incomplete and unjustifiable.
Conclusion
Based on the above we are issuing you this notice pursuant to Subcontract clauses 12.11, 16.6, 22.1 for
the above referenced delays.
We reiterate that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor and/or
other
Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer arising as a result of the above shall be recovered
from you in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, and 16.6.1 in addition to other relevant
contract clauses.
Unfortunately, you have elected not to respond in a timely manner to our previous notices; and
moreover and much to our disappointment- your late responses attempted to pass the blame to others
but your selves, which obviously serves no tangible outcome towards recovering from these delays, you
apparently have yet to take necessary actions in this regard

Whilst we responded to you in a detailed fashion, we kept notifying you and issuing you with these
'Notice to
Correct' in order to allow you to rectify your failures within a reasonable time, sadly the delays
expanded to a state were the Employer took notice and is sending TCAJV an array of notices depicting
you're your own
delays and calling upon immediate and swift action towards recovery of delays.
As such, we urge you to treat this notice in a diligent manner and cooperate with our efforts to deploy
the
required remedies as stated above in order to avoid unnecessary disputes, thus potential losses. We
also
remind you of Sub-Clause 16.5.3 (b) in respect to your 'express' responsibility to mitigate the delays. This
clause is clear regarding the consequence of 'failure to comply'. Therefore, we urge you to start taking
mitigation measures by working at the available work fronts and assigning adequate manpower to
recover
your own delays.
We trust you find the above self-explanatory and we look forward to your continued action and support
on
this project.
Yours faithfully
