Subject:Contractor’s Claim Notices
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter ref: (1) and subsequent follow up letter ref: (2) above.
We are sufficiently aware of what the Contract says regarding the preparation and submission of
‘Contractor’s Claims’ and how to demonstrate critical delays to the Time for Completion. Therefore,
having done just that since commencement of the Works (and for what is rapidly approaching seven
years), including without limitation the various consolidated Time Impact Analyses (TIA) that were: (i)
submitted in the period leading up to and utilised as the basis for the time awarded under the Heads of
Agreement (HOA); and (ii), submitted in the period leading up to and utilised as the basis for the time
awarded under the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we are appreciably surprised
and perplexed at you informing us [some 4+ years after the HOA and almost one year after the SAA8]
that you now find the consolidated Time Impact Analysis methodology ‘unacceptable’.
Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.2.1 (Time Impact Analysis) states that in order to assist you with
determining our entitlement to any extension of the Time for Completion, we are to prepare and
provide you with a time impact analysis, ‘using a methodology acceptable to the Employer …’
We have done just that. We remind you that the TIA methodology was presented to you during a
meeting held on 10 March 2013 and a copy of that presentation was issued to you for approval on 12
March 2013 (our letter MTB/TCA/AECOM/000335 refers). You replied on 26 March 2013 (via letter
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-00360) advising that you had no objection to the methodology presented and
went so far as to say that ‘a consolidated TIA [is required] for the combined effects of delays.’
It therefore begs the following question: why, having previously advised us you had no objection to our
TIA methodology and informed us that ‘a consolidated TIA [is required] for the combined effects of
delays’, are you now ‘back-tracking’ and the consolidated TIA methodology is now ‘unacceptable’?
Therefore, in view of what was agreed to some 6+ years ago and what you agreed to by virtue of the
HOA and SAA8 there should not be any grounds for argument to the agreement reached previously that
a Consolidated TIA encompassing the combined effects of multiple delaying events is acceptable.
We are also perplexed by your reference to ‘global claims’.
The term “global claim” implies we have amalgamated numerous delaying events into say a single
submission without properly demonstrating a causal link between the delay and the result of that delay.
You will, if you are familiar with both the methodology and application of TIA, and familiar with the
detail of the various Consolidated TIAs generated by us to date, know that we have not done this. It
therefore begs the question why you would want to state, infer or imply otherwise?
We conclude by advising you that we will very shortly be issuing you a consolidated Time Impact
Analysis that will take cognisance of all of the notified delay events that have occurred following the
‘effective date’ cited in the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) i.e. 4 September
2018, and will not just be limited to the six delay notices referenced in your letter ref: (1). This will
enable you to undertake whatever assessment you deem necessary as well as enable you to respond
pursuant to the obligations placed upon you by virtue of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.6.
Yours faithfully,
