Subject: 路 Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Mr. Matthews,
Further to the Engineer's letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-08570 dated 22 November 2017
(reference (2) above), we write to respond to the Contractor's position on the legal interpretation of
"Concurrent Delay", which was addressed in part II of the Contractor's letter noted as (1) above.
The other issues raised by the Contractor in reference (1) have been addressed by the Engineer in
reference (2) and will not be repeated here.
1. Form of Contract
a) For the avoidance of doubt, the Contract is not derived from the Abu Dhabi Government's
Standard Form of Contract. The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated
by the Employer and the Contractor.
2. UAE Law
a) The Contractor refers to a regime under UAE law whereby costs are apportioned where
both the Employer and the Contractor cause loss, under reference to Articles 290 and 291
Subject: 路 Concurrent Delay for EOT 1 of the UAE Civil Code.
b) These articles are irrelevant. As the Contractor has stated itself\ this position under the
Civil Code is not mandatory and the terms of the Contract agreed by the Parties will
prevail. The raising by the Contractor of this issue in its letter is a complete irrelevance.
3. Definition of Concurrent Delay and Industry Practice
a) The definition of "Concurrent Delay" in the Contract speaks for itself. The fact that the
definition is similar to that of "true concurrent delay" as used in the SCL Protocol is neither
here nor there. The Protocol has no legal force whatsoever in England, far less in the
UAE. The Protocol cannot override the terms of the parties' contrace.
b) In any event, the Protocol recognizes that it only provides guidance on concurrency:
c) The fact that the Protocol states that true concurrent delay as defined in the Protocol is a
rare occurrence is irrelevant4
. Based on a true construction of the definition in the Contract,
Concurrent Delay either has occurred or it has not. The Contractor has failed in its
obligation to demonstrate that it has not occurred.5
4. Do Both Delays Have to Impact the Critical Path?

Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) wherein the Contractor provided its position regarding
its non-compliance with the Heads of Agreement {HOA) and the Contractual requirement to provide a
concurrency analysis. The Engineer maintains the position conveyed to the Contractor for the past two
years and reference is made to correspondence {3) to (9) above.
The Contractor's assertion that an assessment of Concurrent Delays is not relevant to EOTl is

fundamentally incorrect as per the following:
Clause 3 of the HOA states "The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full
period of extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in Schedule 16 (Milestones)
to the Extended Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto, such Costs to be substantiated as set out in
these
Heads of Agreement"
The Contractor in letter (1) provides its opinion regarding the meaning ofthe above Clause, however the
wording of the Clause is unambiguous and clear reference is made to the manner upon which the Cost is
to be substantiated, i.e. "as set out in these Heads of Agreement". The Contractor's opinion is not
supported by any provision in the HOA. In addition to Clause 3 above, Clause 23 of the HOA provides
"The Contractor's Claims for Costs shall be
evaluated and agreed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract. All Contractors'
Claims for Costs shall be notified (to the extent that this has not yet been done), particularized and
substantiated and approved or disapproved in accordance with Clause 27 of the Construction Contract".
The above Clause expresses the clear intent of the Parties for Clause 27 of the Conditions of Contract to
govern the manner by which Cost mentioned in the HOA is to submitted, assessed and substantiated.
Despite the Contractor's recent resubmission of Cost related to the HOA {6}, the concurrency analysis
remains outstanding for a circa two years and as per the Contractor's admission vide correspondence {2}
the Contractor is not willing to submit it and remains in breach of Contract.
Clause 27.2.1 of the Conditions of Contract requires the Contractor to submit a time impact analysis,
using a methodology which is acceptable to the Employer, demonstrating the effect and consequences
of the events and periods of delay relied upon by the Contractor in its claims (a Time Impact Analysis}.
The Contractor's TIAs submitted to date are not compliant with the Contract and do not include the
mitigation measures being adopted by the Contractor and a concurrency analysis.
The assessment of concurrency forms part of the Time Impact Analysis submission. The Contractor is
required to demonstrate that there are no concurrent delays caused by the Contractor as a condition
precedent to compensation for delays in accordance with the Program Project Control Requirements
{Clause 1.3.7, Contract, Schedule 12}.
The Contractor's attempt to introduce ambiguity to the prov1s1ons of the HOA and the Contract
provisions indicates bad faith as it misrepresents the clear intent of the HOA. It is notable that the
Contractor in order to support its current position, has changed its opinion regarding the SCL Delay and
Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"}. The Contractor in correspondence (2} was adamant that the
following is applicable:
"Furthermore, neither the AACE International nor the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance
which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal Project".
The Contractor appears to disregard the above statement in a futile attempt to justify that it is not in
breach of its binding contractual obligations. The Engineer maintains that the provision of a concurrency
analysis is a mandatory requirement and not discretionary. The Contractor's submissions in relation to
the HOA fail to provide an analysis that demonstrates that no concurrent delays has been caused by the
Contractor. The Contractor is aware of what is required to be included in a TIA submission since 2013 as

demonstrated in correspondence {8}.
This position has been formally communicated via the Employer's correspondence {9} in response to the
Contractor's letter {10} on the same subject.
With regard to the legal issues raised in the Contractor's letter (lL it is our understanding that the
Employer is writing separately to the Contractor in order to address them.
In light of the above, the Contractor is requested to fully address the issues raised by the Engineer and
provide a contractually compliant concurrency analysis.
Subject: 路 Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Sir,
(1) MTC-CMA-0401-LTR-07700 dated 5 July 2017
(2) MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010852 dated 15 June 2017
(3) MTC-CMA-401-LTR-07745 dated 12 July 2017
(4) MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-07698 dated 09 July 2017
(5) MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/010114 dated 12 February 2017
(6) MTB/TCA/AECOM/l/05552 dated 26 August 2015
The Engineer has variously written that the Contractor has breached its contractual obligation to provide
an assessment of Concurrent Delay as part of its Time Impact Analyses (TIAs). (E.g., references 1, 3, 4.)
As
previously explained, and repeated here, this is untrue. (Reference 2.) The Contractor's submissions are
contractually compliant. This letter explains, once again, why there were no Concurrent Delays with
respect to the period covered by the Heads of Agreement (HOA), referred to as EOT 1.
I. CONCURRENT DELAY IS IRRELEVANT WITH RESPECT TO EOT 1
As a threshold matter, an assessment of Concurrent Delay is not relevant to EOT 1. As we explained in
previous correspondence (references 2, 5), HOA Clause 3 explicitly provided that "[t]he Employer hereby
agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for
Completion of the Contra.ct Milestones" (emphasis added). As explained in previous correspondence
(reference 2), any suggestion that the Contractor now has to prove that there was no Concurrent Delay
would render this language meaningless. The question of entitlement to recover Costs, including
subissues
like Concurrent Delay, has already been resolved.
In letter (reference 1), the Engineer attempts to justify its interpretation of the HOA. The Engineer starts
with the proposition that Clause 3 of the HOA is "qualified by the requirement to substantiate these
costs
as set out in the HOA." Clauses 8 and 23 require the Contractor to substantiate the costs that it is
claiming. This means, for example, that the Contractor must provide proof of the costs that it has
incurred. The Contractor has satisfied this obligation through its various Cost Submissions.
However, the Engineer goes further and insists that, in addition, the Contractor must show a lack of
Concurrent Delay as part of this "substantiation". Recognising that the "demonstration that there are no
concurrent delays" is at least, in part, included within the "JV's showing its entitlement to a claim" the
Engineer notes that it is nevertheless "also a material constituent of TCA JV's evidence to support its

claim" {emphasis added). In other words, the Engineer considers that an assessment of Concurrent
Delay both speaks to the issue of entitlement and substantiation. As explained below, this clearly
strained and
untenable position fails as a sound matter of contractual interpretation.
The Program Project Controls Requirements document confirms the Contractor's position that
entitlement to Costs for the "full period of the extensions of Times for Completion" essentially resolves
the
issue of Concurrent Delay. Paragraph 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements document
(Extension of Time Programme) directly ties the assessment of Concurrent Delay in the TIA submissions
to
the overarching issue of entitlement to compensation for prolongation: Concurrent Delay would "render
the extension of time non-compensable". As the Engineer asserts, "any assessment of concurrent delay
(sic) is linked to the Time Impact Analysis." (Reference 3.) It follows that by recognising entitlement to
prolongation costs for the "full period of extensions to the Times for Completion" in HOA Clause 3, the
parties necessarily dealt with the predecessor question of Concurrent Delay, agreeing that there is no
Concurrent Delay and the full period of the extension of time is compensable. That is separate to the
question of substantiation of Costs. It is within that context, and with that understanding, that HOA
Clause
3 must be read.
The Engineer also asserts that entering into the HOA does not change the position that the Contractor is
not entitled to any additional cost arising from a Concurrent Delay as set forth in COC Clause 21.2.2
(Adjustments to the Contract Price) because the Employer has not waived that requirement in
accordance
with COC Clause 9.1.2 (No Waiver). This argument is wrong. HOA Clause 2 awards an extension of time.
The Engineer does not contest that this was a valid award, the effect of which is that the Employer
waived
liquidated damages under the original contractual Times for Completion for the period of that
extension.
The Engineer does not challenge that this waiver was effective because of Clause 9.1.2. By the same
token, HOA Clause 3 awards costs for the full period of time. Clause 3 does not run afoul of COC Clause
9.1.2 either.
The Engineer's arguments further ignore the overarching context of the HOA and, in particular, HOA
Clause 3. The HOA was intended to settle claims with HOA Clause 3 addressing the Contractor's
prolongation claims.1 It would be inconsistent with this purpose to suggest that the Parties left a key
issue unresolved, such as Concurrent Delay that could reduce (under the Engineer's current assessment)
the Contractor's entitlement to nil. The Contractor obviously would not have agreed to such a level of
uncertainty.
It is thus apparent that the Engineer is either trying to ignore the words "full period of the extensions of
Times for Completion" or trying to override what was agreed in HOA Clause 3 with HOA Clauses 8 and
23.
Neither result is permissible under UAE law. As elaborated further below, rules of contract
interpretation

in the UAE require that words in a contract "should be given effect rather than ignored"2 and that,
clauses
in contracts should be read to avoid creating conflicts between them.3 Given that the Engineer's
interpretation involves ignoring words and creates unavoidable conflicts, it is clearly wrong. II. THE
CONTRACTOR'S LEGAL INTERPRETATION OF CONCURRENT DELAY
The Contract is largely derived from the Abu Dhabi government's standard form contract, which, in turn,
is
a heavily modified 1999 FIDIC Red Book.
Under the Contract, the Contractor is entitled to an extension of time and Cost for all "critical delays"
that
are the result of Employer-delay events.4 However, there are rare circumstances where both the
Employer and Contractor-risk events may both be simultaneously responsible for the same critical
delays.
Recognising this, with respect to claims for extensions of time, COC Clause 16.5.4 provides that:
Where there is Concurrent Delay, the Contractor shall be entitled, ... to an extension of
the Time for Completion. 5
With respect to the Contractor's claims for time-related Costs, COC Clause 21.2.2 provides that:
[T]he Contractor shall not be entitled to any additional cost ... by reason of ... any cause
of delay which, whilst it would otherwise give rise to such an entitlement, is a Concurrent
Delay.6
This liability scheme, i.e., an extension of time but no Costs for Concurrent Delay, is found in England
and
represents a departure from UAE law, which apportions costs in the event the Contractor and the
Employer both cause the loss.7 (We note that this position under UAE law is not mandatory and that the
Parties, through their adoption of COC Clauses 1.1, 16.5.4 and 21.2.2, contracted for the use of a
different
approach.)
In turn, the Contract narrowly defines "Concurrent Delay" as:
[T]he occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event within
clause 16.5.1(a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effects
of which are felt at the same time (emphasis added).8
This definition is taken directly from the industry definition of "true concurrent delay" as defined in
industry publications such as the SCL Delay and Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"):9
Contract, Clause 1.1 SCL Protocol
"the occurrence of two or more delay events at the "the occurrence of two or more delay events at the
same time, one an event within clause 16.5.l(a) to same time, one an Employer Risk Event, the other a
(c) [i.e., an Employer risk event], and the other not Contractor Risk Event, and the effects of which are
falling within those sub-paragraphs [i.e., a felt at the same time."
Contractor risk event], the effects of which are felt
at the same time." This is the narrowest industry definition of concurrent delay. Commentators have
described that a finding

of concurrent delay under this definition is a "rare occurrence"10 or an "exceptional factual"
situation.11 It
is thus apparent that the Parties intended to adopt a very narrow definition for this concept.
Applying the contractual definitions as supplemented by industry practice, the following applies:
(1) Both delays must impact the critical path: considering that COC Sub-Clause 16.5.1 refers to critical
delay to the Works,12 the reference in the same Sub-Clause to "the other [delay} not falling within those
sub-paragraphs" must mean events of the same. character (i.e. critical). If it were any other way, one
critical and one non-critical delay, then the latter could not be said to produce any comparable "effect"
on
the completion of the Works and, therefore, would not fit within the purpose of the Clause as described
above.
This is also the construction industry's understanding of this language. Industry understandings of terms
are given great weight under UAE law. UAE Civil Code provides "[t]hat which is known by custom is
equivalent to o stipulated condition"13 and "[t]he common usages of people shall have probative force
and
shall be abided by."14 Reliance on the industry's understanding of this language is especially probative
here because COC Clause 1.1 (Concurrent Delay) was taken almost verbatim from an industry definition
demonstrating the Parties' intent to incorporate this agreed industry position into the Contract.
According to the industry's understanding, only critical activities are relevant for purposes of concurrent
delay and, especially, true concurrent delay. For example, according to the SCL Protocol:
For concurrent delay to exist, each of the Employer Risk Event and the Contractor Risk Event must
be an effective cause of Delay to Completion (i.e. the delays must both affect the critical path)
(emphasis added).15
This makes sense. Broadly speaking, the Contra~t and law seek to assign the causes of, and therefore
liability for the consequences of, project duration overruns as between the Contractor and the
Employer.
There is no project duration overrun where there is delay to activities that are not on the critical path.
Delay to such sub-critical activities (i.e. activities off the critical path) will not result in the completion
date
being later than it otherwise would have been 16 or, in other words, project duration overrun. Delay to
sub-critical activities, therefore, cannot be said to be the cause of the Contractor's incurrence of extra
costs for prolongation. Take an example from this project. The Employer was late by 88 days in issuing
IFCs. (Reference 6.) This
delay meant that the Contractor was in turn delayed in commencing work on the shop drawings for
concrete works. These shop drawings were required to procure materials and install concrete works.
According to the original programme, the Contractor was also late by 26 days in awarding the
subcontract
to its steelworks subcontractor. (Reference 6.) However, the 88-day delay to concrete works created
float for the appointment of the steelworks subcontractor. The Contractor's appointment of the
steelworks subcontractor was well within the float created by that Employer-caused delay and
accordingly
was not critical. Therefore, the timing of the steelwork subcontractor's appointment did not cause delay

to completion. From the above, it is clear that delay events which affect activities that are not on the
critical path (i.e.
sub-critical events) so do not delay completion of Milestone 9B and, therefore, cannot be a Concurrent
Delay.17 (2) The "effects" of the delays must start and/or end at the same time: the definition of
Concurrent Delay
requires that the effects of the delay events are "felt at the same time." The word "same" means:
"Identical: not different".18 This means the timing of the effects of a delay must not be different.
From an industry perspective, at the very least, this means that both events must "result in the works
being completed later than would otherwise have been the case" .19 Practically speaking, that situation
can
occur only if the effects of the two events start or end at the same time. If one event leads to a critical
delay that is felt first in time, a second event whose effects are felt second in time cannot result in the
works being completed later than would otherwise have been the case. The delay effects of the second
event are sub-critical. The exception is where, viewed retrospectively, the effects of that second event
cease at the same time as the effects of the first event, in which case from the point when the effects of
the second event commenced, the two events are simultaneously resulting in the works being
completed
later than would otherwise have been the case. Conversely, if the effects of that second event cease
after
the effects of the first event cease, the two effects are not "felt at the same time". Instead, in that
scenario, there is no Concurrent Delay, but rather the first event is causing critical delay until its effects
cease and then the second event causes critical delay until its effects cease.
(3) The delay events must occur at "at the same time": if the effects of the delay events are felt at the
same time (as defined above), then we further assess whether the delay events occurred "at the same
time". This is a factual question.
Ill. A lACK OF CONCURRENT DELAY HAS BEEN DEMONSTRATED
Time impact analyses, by their very nature, provide an assessment of Concurrent Delay.
In TIAs, delay events are introduced into the analysis in strict chronological format. For complex
projects,
such as this one, the delay events are usually introduced collectively in particular periods/windows (so,
for
example, all events which arose in April 2015, would be inserted into the then current (host) programme
for analysis). The events are inserted into the analysis in the form of fragnets, and the collective impact
of
the introduced events is modelled. 路
To determine if any of the events in the period/window is critical, the programmer determines if the
introduction of delay events for a period/window produced an incremental delay to the completion date
that was identified in the host programme before the introduction of the delay events. If the completion
date moves, then an event in that period was critical. In that case, a further analysis must be done to
determine which of the events entered for that month is (or are) critical. However, if the completion
date
does not move, then none of the events entered for that period are critical.

On the basis of this, the Contractor has determined, and certified in its TIAs, that only Employer-culpable
events have driven the critical path for EOT1. IV. CONCLUSION
For the above reasons, in the period covered by the HOA (i.e., EOT 1), there is no critical delay caused by
the Contractor, there is no Concurrent Delay and the Contractor has not failed to demonstrate that
there
are no Concurrent Delays caused by the Cor~tractor. The Contractor is therefore entitled to its
substantiated costs for the full period of the extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract
Milestones in the HOA. The Contractor asks the Engineer to accordingly issue his determination
regarding
the Contractor's claim for prolongation in the EOT 1 period.
Subject: Post Heads of Agreement Concurrency Review up to 1 January 2017
Dear Sir,
Further to recent discussions between representatives of the Contractor and the Employer I Engineer,
the
Contractor herewith provides proposed timetables for the preparation of a detailed concurrency review
for the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017. These are attached hereto.
In order to undertake the concurrency review exercise in parallel with the preparation of the revised TIA
submissions (also requested by the Employer I Engineer), the Contractor proposes the adoption of a
'Windows' form of delay analysis to establish the existence of any concurrent Contractor (i.e. culpable)
delay in the period between 5 March 2015 and 1 January 2017.
The 'Windows' methodology will utilize 'Cleaned Up' versions for the Contractor's monthly updates a
predefined
time slice periods.
The 'Windows' methodology establishes the progressed status of the works at the start of the time slice
period and then the progressed s.tatus of the works at the conclusion of the time slice period.
Once the status of the works at the start and conclusion of the time slice period has been established
then
. the programmes can be investigated to identify those specific activities giving rise to critical delay to
the
various Project Milestone during the time slice period.
This process will establish which part'r' is responsible for the critical delay, and in so doing, will also
identify, what if any period of critical delay is deemed to be a Contractor concurrent culpable delay.
It should be noted that accuracy of such a Concurrency review is governed by the duration of the time
slice periods. The greater the time slice periods the less accurate the conclusions will be.
The Contractor has provided 3 time slice option for consideration, these being 1 month, 2 month and
3 month time slice periods.
Based upon the provided timetables, the concurrency review exercise will be complete as follows;
1 month Time Slice periods- 8 October 2017;
2 month Time Slice periods- 23 July 2017; and
3 month Time Slice periods- 25 June 2017;

The three options and associated timetables are provided for the Employers I Engineer's consideration
and the Contractor requests the Employer I Engineer to confirm which time slice period is to be adopted
so the exercise can commence.
Yours faithfully,
