
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer's Assistants Letter at reference 1, the Contractor disagrees that the Scope of
Works outlined in the Contractor's Recommendation at reference 2 forms part of the Contractor's Lump
Sum and/or Attendances on Provisional Sum Works, the Contractor wishes to outline the following:

As outlined in attachment A,'DRS' the Contractors Recommendation relates to MEP Building services
works such as Public Health Engineering, Fire Protection System, Fire Alarm System, Ventilation and Air
conditioning System and Electrical System which are as per Section 13 of Volume 6 MC. The Interface
Metrix referred to in the Engineer's DRS, ER Volume 5 Section 4 .3 and Sub-Clause 4.3.2 clearly identifies
that such responsibility of Main Civil Contractor is for particular interface required for system wide
Contractor's such as Signaling and Telecom etc and not for Provisional Sum items as outlined above.

Furthermore the Interface Sheet D3a on pages 73 and 74 of Volume 5 referenced are also a part of the
Interface requirements between Civil Contractor's and System wide Contractor's such as Systems,
Rolling Stocks and Track Works Contractor's who are directly employed by Employer. This is however
not applicable to provisional Sum MEP works as mentioned above. Hence the requirement of "Sleeves"
as mentioned in Contractors Recommendation is a requirement for MEP Building Services as per volume
6 Section 13 which are a part of Provisional Sum.

Similarly for "Rebar Bonding", the referenced Interface Matrix D6 for stray current protection mentions
providing cathodic protection system with "sacrificial anodes" (to be provided by others). It should be
noted however "Rebar Bonding" is part of the overall Earthing System for the Building and is therefore
part of Provisional Sum Works.

Although "Puddle Flanges were included in the Contractor's Recommendation no reference to them was
made in either the Employer's letter nor the DRS, none the less the Contractor wishes to make his
position clear that he believes said "Puddle Flanges" form part of the Provisional Sum scope of works
given they are part of the overall drainage system of the Building.

Since these items (Sleeves, Puddle Flanges and Rebar Bond Plates) are specialized in nature and requires
prefabrication in a workshop including hot dip galvanizing.The installation of these items requires
specialized care and attention to finish and take these "Sleeves and Puddle Flanges" for further
extension to connect into the Main MEP system.

The Contractor has provided a Synopsis attachment B, for the "Sleeves and Puddle Flanges" in Ras Bu
Abboud Station for the Under Platform Level RC Wall, detailing the scope of works of the
aforementioned items.

In light of the above the Contractor wishes to clearly outline that his position remains the same, and
that all Works outlined in the Contractor's Recommendation are part of Provisional Sum Works and
therefore are required to be procured via the Provisional Sum Protocol. The Contractor would kindly
request the Engineer's Assistant to resume his review of the Contractor's Recommendation and issue a
formal response accordingly

Yours faithfully,
