Subject:Notice of Delay – Delays to Claim and Variation Submissions
Dear Sir,
Further to our previous correspondences listed above (3 & 4), we once again highlight your failures
concerning the submission of commercial documentation in a timely manner and in line with your
contractual obligations.
As per our site meeting on the 28th November 2018, it was agreed that you would submit all
outstanding Claims and Variations in line with the proposed schedule (see email enclosure 29th
November 2018). The majority of these submissions were to be received by the end of December 2018,
however, a large proportion of these submissions remain outstanding. We hereby instruct you to submit
all outstanding Claims and Variations by the end of January 2019. This is to include all the required
resubmissions following the initial assessment and feedback by our Commercial team.
Please ensure your submissions comply with the Variation procedure in the Subcontract, inclusive of all
required substantiation (quantification sheets, marked-up drawings, 3nr quotations for new rates etc.)
to ensure no further delays are incurred as a result of your failure to comply with your contractual
obligations.
We reiterate once again that the absence of supporting particulars and substantiation is a failure of your
Subcontract obligations and therefore remind you of your contractual obligations in this regard pursuant
to subcontract clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion]
27.1[Subcontractor’s Claims], 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], and other relevant clauses.
In summary, from the information provided above we are issuing this notice pursuant to Subcontract
Clauses 12.11 [Cooperation], 16.6 [Delay Damages], 22.1 [Notice to Correct] for the above referenced
delays. We reiterate that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Subcontractors as a result of the above shall be recovered from you in accordance with the
Subcontract clauses 10.3, and 16.6.1 in addition to other relevant Subcontract Clauses.
This is for your information and immediate action.

Yours faithfully,
