Dear Sir,
This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate a
variation. The nature and extent of the variation is provided below.

The South Eastern entrance adjacent to Al Shamouk tower is deferred from the current delivery
program and therefore omitted from the Contractor's scope of works as presented in the attached

drawings. However,the Contractor is to enhance the pedestrian crossing at the signal and provide a
passive provision to construct the entrance at a later date.

The provisions of Engineer's Instruction No.87 referenced above are therefore deleted within Volume 5:
Volume 5, Sub-Clause 3.5.14
Lot 2.2, Al Sadd StatioA, eAtra Ace adjaceAt to Al Sl:la A101::1k tower, provisioA for ·1ertical
traAsportatio A 'Nill be
2 escalators aAd 1elevator as per attacl:IA1eAt 1.

The Contractor is instructed to include as a new addition, the following requirements within Volume 5:
Volume 5, Sub-Clause 3.5.14
Lot 2.2, Al Sadd Station, enhancements of the pedestrian crossing at Al Quds signal, subject to MOTCLTPD
review and approval,are to be provided as well as a passive provision to construct, at a later stage, the
South- Eastern entrance of the Station.
Notwithstanding the present instruction,the Contractor is also required to provide the related quotation
in the format described under 13.2.1and 13.2.2 Sub Clauses of the General Conditions of Contract for
the Engineer to take into considerat ion when proceeding with the determination under Sub clause
3.5.1.
Dear Sir,

The Consultant is hereby instructed to proceed with the implementation of the Engineer's Instruction
(E.I.) no.87 regarding the omission from the design of the entrance adjacent to Al Shamouk tower at Al
Sadd Station and the consequent design changes as detailed in the enclosed Engineer's letter reference
1).

In addition, the Consultant is informed that this instruction supersedes the Client's instruction under
letter reference 2).

The Client confirms that this instruction is given pursuant to Sub-Clause 4.4 [Variations] of the
Agreement. Accordingly, the Consultant is requested to submit a proposal for this variation pursuant to
Sub-Clause 4.4.2. Upon receipt thereof, the Client shall make a fair adjustment to the Agreed
Compensation in accordance with Sub-Clause 4.4.1.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Consultant is reminded of its obligations under Sub-Clauses 4.4.4 - 4.4.7
of the Agreement and is hereby informed that the urgent incorporation of these instructions to the
design is of vital importance for the timely completion of the Works.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
