
Subject:Notice to Correct: Access of Unauthorised Personnel on Site & Failure to Comply with the Health
and Safety Procedures
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our numerous email correspondences
enclosed herewith, this is to officially inform you that there have been incidents of access of
unauthorised personnel on site, despite our previous warnings and notifications.
We are taking this opportunity to highlight our great concern of your unresponsiveness and lack of
proper action, to generally address the issues of Health and Safety procedures, also raised in our
previous correspondences enclosed in the table herewith. The incident mentioned above, along with the
other previous incidents related to Health and Safety issues, are failures of your Subcontract obligations
and we strictly warn you that they will not be tolerated.
You are further informed that your conduct in respect to this matter may cause serious problems to the
Project and it is totally unacceptable, for which you shall be held solely responsible and liable.
We put on record the following:
1.
2.
3.

You have repeated similar violations previously, where we strictly notified you;
No corrective/preventive measures have been adopted in order to avoid reoccurrences;
You have ignored the rules and procedures of this Project, in regards to Health and Safety.

Please note that your mentioned failures are a general breach of the Subcontract Agreement. Your
failure to comply with the Conditions of the Subcontract including but not limited to Clauses 12.14
[Health & Safety Procedures], 14.7.1 [Health and Safety of Personnel] and 14.4.1 [Labour Laws] is noted.
Be reminded that, you shall fully comply with the Health and Safety requirements as per the Subcontract
Agreement and the UAE laws, at all times.

Therefore, we hereby instruct you under Subcontract Clause 22.1 [Notice to Correct] to immediately
take all necessary measures to prevent any similar future incidents and comply with the Project’s Health
and Safety procedures.
This is for your immediate action and attention.
Yours faithfully,
