Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0094
Engineer’s Failure to provide IFC Information to Set-up SACS Initial Database
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay [and/or disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same
The Event(s):
10 March 2019, we issued RFI/0401/16926-00 (dated 6 March 2019) in connection with the Security
Access Control System (SACS) requesting you to assist with the “collection of all necessary information
to prepare the initial database with approved access”, in accordance with the requirements of
Specification Section 281300 (‘Security Access Control System’). By way of introduction, Clause 1.2.A
(‘Summary’) states:
‘This Section includes a fully integrated Security Access Control System for the … Midfield Terminal
Complex. The Security Access Control System consists of a Central Station, multiple networked
workstation computers, operating system, database servers and application software, and field-installed
door Controllers, card readers, biometric ID verification, alarm concentrator devices connected by a
high-speed electronic data transmission network.’
While Clause 1.2.E which states:
“’The Contractor shall prepare all access levels and credential definitions for the complete system. The
Contractor shall coordinate with the Employer and other (end) users, through the Employers
representative, [and ensure the] collection of all necessary information to prepare the initial database
with approved access levels.’
Accordingly, through RFI/0401/16926-00, we requested the following information which would allow us
to set up the initial SACS database with approved access levels for the totality of the MTB SACS ID:
1)
Complete list of group profiles in which the Employer intends to segregate the MTB SACS (end)
users; and.
2)
Group access rights by SACS ID per each of the above groups.
We complied with our obligations under Specification Section 281300 and attached to RFI/0401/1692600 was a comprehensive self-documenting SACS User’s Groups Profile Schedule, prepared in excel [and
prepared in conjunction with the Security Systems package subcontractor, ATLAS], pre-populated with
the totality of the MTB SACS ID as per the approved design and the 20 (twenty) User Profiles Groups
communicated to us by you. The purpose of the SACS User’s Groups Profile Schedule was to enable you

to populate the same and to map groups and respective access right attributes to the totality of the
SACS ID, in one single solution. Therefore having prepared ‘all access levels and credential definitions
for the complete system’ as obligated to do so, we asked that you check and review the same, and
provide the information identified at items 1 and 2 above, and if in the event the group list was deficient
in any way, to revise and integrate the same as necessary.
On 18 March 2019 we received your response to RFI/0401/16926-00 (ref: 1). However, rather than
provide us with the information requested [which as noted, you are obligated to do so], the response
read as follows:
‘No objection to the structure of the table in Excel. Content of the table is not for the Design Consultant
to review, revise or integrate’.
This KPF provided response blatantly failed to provide the information expressly requested of you.
Nevertheless, 49 calendar days later, on 6 May 2019, we received a Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/16926
00 (ref: 2), which in addition to the above, your (AECOM) provided response was annotated as follows:
‘Contractor to implement the initial access profiles as in the attached documents received from the
ADAC Security Team. The documents have the list of doors needed for several groups of airport
operational personnel. Additional attachments are mentioned above and included in the revised RFI.’
Apart from the fact you failed to respond to our request for information in a timely manner, the
information annotated upon and / or attached to the Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/16926-00 is
inconclusive and fails to provide the necessary information essential for the SACS data base. This was
conveyed to you via our letter ref: (4) in which we attached a copy of ATLAS letter dated 19 May 2019,
which in no uncertain terms advised that the attachments to your Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/1692600 consisted of a disparate of several PDF tabulations and had not been properly documented and
therefore were open to interpretation; and therefore could not be considered to be the requested IFC
Design information enabling them to implement that same into the Works without them ‘ errors …
omissions and unnecessary works and re-works’.
In short, the Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/16926-00 (1) does not allow ATLAS to unequivocally
determine the number and names of the permanent user’s groups; (2) nor does it allow ATLAS to
unequivocally determine the totality of the SACS ID for the MTB Project and which access rights are to
be assigned to each group.
For these reasons and as previously notified within letter ref: (4) we are unable to implement the
information provided under the responses to RFI/0401/16926-00 (previously issued to you on 10 March
2019) and unless and until we have a clear directive from you, we are not in a position to proceed
further with completion of the Works subject to Specification Section 281300 (‘Security Access Control
System’). We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:
Acts of prevention such as this, will, at this stage of the Works, prevent us from obtaining the Building
Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement and completion of Milestone MS09B.
Consequently, the more we are prevented from completing the Security Access Control System and
related works, the more likely this will prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone
MS09C).
Action Required:
We therefore, request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be
applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to
the Works. Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved as within ten (10) calendar days from the date
of this e-notice.
In the meantime, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to

the Time for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described
herein.
Yours faithfully,
