Subject:Available Open Workfronts
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letters referenced (1 to 8) above in which you are alleging that you have
suffered delays due to obstructions by others and/or you are unable to proceed with your works for
various reasons. Please be informed that we acknowledge the fact that some of your works might have
been affected by others, however, we put on record that there have been enough available work-fronts
for you to proceed.

Therefore, we have enclosed marked-up drawings and photos showing the available workfronts which
are as follows:
•
There is a huge open workfront in the departure area for the check-in islands nos. 4-5-6,
wherein you are currently working. We enclosed photos and marked-up drawings, where the blue
highlighted sections show the mentioned check-in islands. The works in this area will require your
attendance until the end of March 2019 the latest, before other trades (i.e. MEP and other Finishes
Subcontractors) will commence with their works. We also confirm that the check-in islands have been
covered as required and environmental control has been provided.
•
You are required to immediately start installation works for the transfer counters at Level 3.0
transfer back desk rooms 466 and 524.
•
You are also required to start the installation of back cabinet installation at rooms 383 and 387
at Level 3.0 south transfer area.
•
By next week, the areas highlighted in orange in the enclosed ‘Immigration & info panel’
marked-up drawing will be provided to you to proceed with your works.
•
At the end of February 2019, the grouting of overall 12 camera poles will be completed and
provided to you to start cladding works.
Please note that since we are in the Operational Readiness & Airport Transition (ORAT) trial stage, any
delay in the completion of the works may shift the trials, testing and commissioning activities, which will
consequently cause unrecoverable delays.
Therefore, we put on record that there are enough available work-fronts for you to proceed.
Please also ensure that there is sufficient manpower at all times to be able to coordinate the works on
site with our construction team. This can be established by means of continuous communication with
our construction team and other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely commencement and completion
of the works.
We always remain available to assist you by all possible means to progress in all areas satisfactorily and
ensure that the target programme dates are met throughout the project.
This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
