Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/SMITH/L/000271 dated 17-Jan-18, regarding as-built drawing
schedule, we regret to note that your as-built drawing submission schedule is yet to be received.
In the absence of your response, with reference to the Target As-bu ilt Drawing Schedule Rev 02.1
issued
to yourselves under above mentioned TCAJV ietter, please be reminded that the scheduled dates are
overdue.
Moreover. it has been observed that your submission of as-built drawings of Pier 4 & Pier 3 have current
ly
become critical for the Project Handing Over.
As per the Programme Rev. 10.4 and Project Close-out Forecasting Principle including As-built BIM
Model
submission and approval durations, final As-built Drawing submissions may not exceed the following
latest
dates for each stage of the building completion:
• Pier 4 -- 03 May 2018,
• Pier 3 -- 21 Jun 2018,
• Pier 1 -- 12 Aug 2018,
• Pier 2 -- 21 Sep 2018,
• CP -- 16 Jan 2019 .
Since the submission and approval of the handing over documentation is mandatory for obtaining the

taking over certificate for each completion stage of the project, you are required to take the following
necessary actions with immediat e effect:
a) Provide mitigation plan (revised forecast dates) for all delayed as-built drawings.
b) Provide revised submission plan for all balance as-built drawings in line with planned construction
completion dates.
c) Submit all balance as-built drawings for approval in an expeditious manner.
d) Resubmit any Code 3 or Code 4 as-built drawings if applicable.
e) Ensure compliance with CADD Manual Rev. 4 dated January 2012, Specifications Book 23,
Appendix B.
Subject AMC Area (Office Building) Outstanding & Interface Works Completion
Dear Sir,
Further to the above referenced letter (1) and (2) the Engineer would like to advise the Contractor that
ARCO Interiors are progressing with their fit out installation works and in order not to adversely impact
their progress we urge the Contractor to complete all outstanding and incomplete works in this Third
Party, AMC area, Office Building L3.1, and ensure the completion of the snag and de-snag WIR process.
The Engineer also highlights that the dates agreed in the coordination workshop on 27 February 2018
between ARCO and the Contractor in the presence of the Engineer, regarding the completion dates of
the interface services have been not been met despite the Contractor's commitment.
The Engineer requests the Contractor to provide its completion strategy for the outstanding and
interface works within the next 5 working days, upon receipt of this letter.
Your urgent action in this matter is appreciated
Yours faithfully,
