Subject:
Dear Sir,

Area of Concerns for Non Accessibility on Site Delay Damages

With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above, we hereby
inform you that we have forwarded your concern to M/S Al Ghurair as described in the said letter and

we are in the process of preparing a response to the rest of the Subcontractors allegedly affecting your
works, instructing them to coordinate accordingly.
Notwithstanding the above, you are hereby informed pursuant but not limited to Clauses 12.12.1,
12.12.2 (a), (b) and 12.12.3
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] that the access to the
Site is not exclusive and that Other Subcontractors may perform work on the Site concurrently.
Moreover, as an experienced Subcontractor and as per Clause 12.12.3 you should have allowed in your
Subcontract Price for all delays, disruptions and costs you may incur arising out of or in connection with
the work to be performed by Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above, please note that Clause 12.12.3 further states that:
“The Subcontractor agrees it has allowed in the Subcontract Price for all delays, disruptions and costs it
may incur arising out of or in connection with the work to be performed by Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors or otherwise to comply with its obligations pursuant to this clause 12.12 including but
not limited to those interfaces set out in the interface table included in Schedule 12 (Specification) to
the extent that such matters are known or ought reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor
on or before the date of execution of the Subcontract. The Subcontractor agrees that it shall not be
entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional cost or
adjustment to the Subcontract Price in respect of any delay or disruption caused by having to comply
with its obligations pursuant to this clause 12.12 in so far as it relates to matters known or which ought
reasonably to have been known by the Subcontractor on or before the date for submission of the
tender.”.
Furthermore, without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement to claim for “delay
damages” as stated in your letter reference 2 above, you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the
Subcontract to provide all information and evidence that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or
mitigate the alleged delays as required under the Subcontract Agreement including evidence or proof of
loss.
Dear sir
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Wall Cladding Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 19,832,798.
Basis of Claim
You assert that the progress of your Wall Cladding works was delayed and disrupted by the occurrence
of certain events for which we are contractually liable to reimburse to you the additional Cost that you
have incurred as a consequence. In this regard you have identified the following as the events causing
disruption to your Wall Cladding works:
1.
Site Measurements Panels
2.
Design Change - Piers and Wrapper Walls GRG Skirting

3.
Design Change- Piers and Wrapper Wall GRG Collar around Façade Mullions
4.
Misalignment of Ceiling and Wall joints due to the structural deviations
5.
Design Change- Piers Movement Joint Panels MPC-11C (wall)
6.
Engineering Delays- Piers Gate houses Entrance Panels MPC-11C (wall)
7.
Lack of MEP Clearance – Piers Gate Houses’ Entrance wall cladding
8.
Lack of Facade clearance & uncontrolled site conditions to start wall cladding in Piers and
Wrappers
9.
Wall cladding’s Scaffolding disruptions
10.
Wall cladding delays due to Out-of-sequence works / Deviation of the installation plan
11.
Instruction to hold all the wall cladding works on site due to fatality incidents
You have also provided a brief narrative of each event in your Submission (pages 13,811 to 13,839).
There is however nothing much of substance in the narrative; for example, you allege for Event 1 (Site
Measurements Panels) that “massive delay” was caused to the completion of the fabrication and
installation of “huge quantities” of MPC-11B and MPC-11C panels and similarly in Event 4 (Misalignment
of Ceiling and Wall joints) that “big quantities” of the fabricated/delivered MPC-11B panels were refabricated Such parlance is patently worthless in establishing the facts and the disruption (if any) that
might reasonably be attributed to each of these events. Suffice to say that it is for you to establish and
convey the facts pertaining to each event, including quantities and time(s) where relevant. Moreover,
where the design and/or method of installation has been changed e.g. Event 2 (GRG Skirting), Event 3
(GRG Collar), Event 5 (Movement Joint Panels) and Event 9 (Scaffolding - stand alone in lieu of
cantilevered from Birdcage for Wall Cladding) then all directly related costs (such as the labour,
equipment and other resources utilised in the execution of the changed work) should be included in the
valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption.
Having identified the events upon which your disruption claim is based, it is for you to then identify the
disruption suffered for each event. It is not sufficient to merely list events and then conclude and
proceed on the basis that your entire Wall Cladding works suffered disruption as that was not the case.
Indeed we will not entertain any such ‘global claim’. A claim against each event is the correct approach
and also necessary to precisely establish its impact. Furthermore, your failure to notify and establish the
impact of each event may have prejudiced any related entitlement we might otherwise have had to
make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a back-charge against a subcontractor. If
such relief (or any part) is lost due to your failure to provide notice in accordance with the Subcontract,
then your own related entitlement would clearly also be negated. If, despite the foregoing, you
maintain that your Wall Cladding works have been disrupted, then you must submit an appropriately
detailed, substantiated and independent claim for each alleged disruption event.
Method of Valuation
Notwithstanding our rejection of your global disruption claim, we have reviewed the submitted
valuation and highlight the following as aspects requiring your further attention and consideration in
any subsequent submission.
The submitted valuation claim comprises the following elements:
WCD 1

This element comprises the cost of Labour (direct & subcontract) that you say was deployed in
completing 44,554m2 of Wall Cladding over the period February 2016 to October 2017 (AED 8.7m) from
which you have deducted what you say was your estimated / budgeted cost based on an unsupported
production allowance of 4.63 m2 per man per Work Day (1.3m). Furthermore you say that this loss of
production necessitated more Supervision and Foreman time (AED 0.9m) and also additional Scaffold
time (4.7m). You have then claimed AED 0.3m for other (unidentified) cost by applying 2% uplift to the
amount(s) claimed.
Observations
•
Actual production was seemingly less than 15% of the allowance. Allowance to be corroborated
by an ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ and a ‘measured mile’ analysis using contemporary records to
establish the actual production achieved in areas and at times free of disruption.
•
Full breakdown of all Wall Cladding related BQ unit rates to be provided.
•
Contemporary records of resources deployed must be capable of being objectively verified.
Resources to be identified by name, designation and role in the Wall Cladding works.
•
Actual Cost (not rates) to be used. Employment contracts, salary slips, evidence of payment and
the like to be provided.
•
Cost to be abated for Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of
resources, supervision, availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
•
Evidence to be provided of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
•
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) to be checked against
valuations submitted for variations and other claims.
WCD 2
This element comprises the cost of additional Architect / Draftsman and Design Manager Days required
to make changes to documents relating to the Events 2, 3, 5 and 6 i.e. Events where the design and/or
method of installation has been changed. This being the case, then all directly related costs should be
included in the valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption. There may be
some duplication here with the valuations submitted by you for variations and other claims.
WCD 3
For this (second) Scaffold element you claim for the erection and dismantling of 77,535m2 of Scaffold
and rental of the same for a period of 4 weeks. We do not (currently) see how this forms part of a claim
for disruption and in any event consider there may be some duplication here with the valuations
submitted by you for variations and other claims.
We trust that our position regarding disruption claims is clear and that if you intend to pursue any such
claim, then you will structure and submit the same accordingly.
Dear Sir,
We write to express our concern regarding your delays in submission of Rev 0 shop drawing as per the
forecast date.
We note that you failed to adhere to the planned submission date which is evident from the enclosed
shop drawing list.

You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 which
states that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due expedition and without delay,
and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV or Other Subcontractors.
In view of the above, you are hereby instructed to take immediate steps to mitigate your
aforementioned delays to avoid any further delays to the Works.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by ourselves and/or Other
Subcontractors arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from you in
accordance with the Subcontract.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
