Subject:EOT & Prolongation Costs Assessment & On-Account Cashflow Assistance Payment
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letters referenced (1 & 2) above,
wherein we reviewed your submission for the Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion (EOT) and
your various submissions of prolongation Costs, we would like to inform you that we have assessed your
total actual Costs and we have enclosed it for your review.

For the avoidance of doubt, our assessment enclosed herewith, is without prejudice and it is to be used
independently to the assessment of the prolongation Cost submission and EOT which will follow once
you submit full particulars as described in both of our aforementioned letters. In this instance, your
attention is drawn to our letter referenced (2) above, in which you were requested to provide further
particulars i.e. evidence and supporting documents to substantiate your prolongation Costs claim. In our
letter referenced (2) we have listed general and specific comments so that you may recognise the
deficiencies in your submissions and rectify them accordingly.
Kindly be informed that the enclosed assessment has been based on your total Costs submissions to
date. For the purpose of assessing your actual Costs, in the assessment we have removed any
task/activity related items, which should not be included and/or should not have been included within
your prolongation Costs submission and your EOT claim. An assessment of your Time Impact Analysis
(TIA) will also be completed in order to establish your entitlement to time and Costs for EOT and
prolongation Costs. However, we have not received your TIA as requested numerous times and via our
letters referenced (1 to 3) above, for the total duration of all of your works.
To assist with your cashflow, please be informed that AED 15 million will be released in due course and
another AED 15 million will be released next month (both amounts are subject to TCA JV receiving the
payment(s) from the Engineer) as an on-account payment(s).
To be clear, the enclosed assessment shall not be considered a payment against our assessment of your
EOT and prolongation Costs submission but shall be dealt with separately. The intention is to aid your
cash flow and to prevent any financial difficulties which you may have to ensure the completion of the
Works, taking into consideration that the Engineer is yet to approve your prolongation Costs
submissions and EOT claim.
Notwithstanding the above, the release of the on-account payment(s) is subject to your submission of
all supporting information to adduce the evidence. We have also included further detailed
comprehensive comments in the assessment for your review and ease of understanding.
We clarify that the information above is not to be construed as a waiver of or a limitation to any of the
Contractor's rights under the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
