Dear Sir,

The Contractor writes in response to the Engineer’s Assistant’s letter referenced above regarding Key
Interface Date – STAD.04 and draws attention towards interface requirements specified in Appendix B of
Vol. 5, Employer’s Requirement – Particular, and notes the requirements assigned to Civil contractor 2.1
and 2.2. At this stage the following have been complied with.
Design Stage

Agree Survey and alignment with major station Civil Contractor
Integrate requirements provided by Major station in Tunnel
Provide all the tunnel requirements for integration by the Major Station Civil Contractor

Contractor further informs that a Design Control Interface Document (DCID) referenced 2) above has
been prepared and signed off with Major Station Contractor after a series of interface meetings. The
DCID outlines the agreed methodology for the removal of the TBMs terminating in Msheireb Station as
per the requirements of the respective contracts with the Employer. The Contractor notes that
Engineer’s Assistant has always been informed about the development on this subject at various
meetings.

The following interface requirements can be performed by Lot 2.1 and 2.2 can be taken up once access
is given by Major Station Civil contractor,
Construction stage
Soil Improvement for connection tunnel to station
Connect tunnel to Station box

Contractor further clarifies all the points raised by Engineer’s Assistant in above letter as follows

•
The shaft in question is not ready for taking over, as the Major Station Civil Contractor has still
not cast the roof slab which was scheduled to be cast by the end of October 2015, Vide point no. 7 of
MOM dated 26.03.2015.

•
The Contractor is fully prepared and ready to inspect the shaft for taking over access as soon as
the Major Station Civil Contractor confirms completion of the concourse slab incorporating all the
requirements conveyed and agreed upon. However Contractor can start its work only after specific
access is offered and made available.

•
STAD.04 date was not achieved although this is not the Contractor’s deliverable. Despite this
further impacts can be minimized provided the Contractor is able to access the shaft through the surface
by the end of March 2016. Any further delay in providing access by the Major Station Civil Contractor,
there will be impacts on program which can be evaluated only upon receiving confirmed dates the
access will be available.

•
STAD.04 in reality is a deliverable by the Major Station Civil Contractor. The Contractor has
discharged all the pre-requisites on its part by providing all the necessary design inputs for this specific
event and signed off DCID, and now depends entirely upon actual construction activities by the
interfacing party to which the Contractor has no influence and thus cannot be held responsible for any
subsequent delay.

Please rest assured however that, notwithstanding the above, the Contractor will endeavour to mitigate
any
Delays and additional costs in accordance with its contractual obligations.

Yours faithfully,
