Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1
Dear Mr. Matthews,
Further to the Engineer's letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-L TR-08570 dated 22 November 2017
(reference (2) above), we write to respond to the Contractor's position on the legal interpretation of
"Concurrent Delay", which was addressed in part II of the Contractor's letter noted as (1) above.
The other issues raised by the Contractor in reference (1) have been addressed by the Engineer in
reference (2) and will not be repeated here.
1. Form of Contract
a) For the avoidance of doubt, the Contract is not derived from the Abu Dhabi Government's
Standard Form of Contract. The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated
by the Employer and the Contractor.
2. UAE Law
a) The Contractor refers to a regime under UAE law whereby costs are apportioned where
both the Employer and the Contractor cause loss, under reference to Articles 290 and 291
Subject: · Concurrent Delay for EOT 1 of the UAE Civil Code.
b) These articles are irrelevant. As the Contractor has stated itself\ this position under the
Civil Code is not mandatory and the terms of the Contract agreed by the Parties will
prevail. The raising by the Contractor of this issue in its letter is a complete irrelevance.
3. Definition of Concurrent Delay and Industry Practice
a) The definition of "Concurrent Delay" in the Contract speaks for itself. The fact that the
definition is similar to that of "true concurrent delay" as used in the SCL Protocol is neither
here nor there. The Protocol has no legal force whatsoever in England, far less in the
UAE. The Protocol cannot override the terms of the parties' contrace.
b) In any event, the Protocol recognizes that it only provides guidance on concurrency:
c) The fact that the Protocol states that true concurrent delay as defined in the Protocol is a
rare occurrence is irrelevant4
. Based on a true construction of the definition in the Contract,
Concurrent Delay either has occurred or it has not. The Contractor has failed in its
obligation to demonstrate that it has not occurred.5
4. Do Both Delays Have to Impact the Critical Path?
Yours faithfully,
