Subject:Subcontract Works for Non–Structural Metal Works for the Midfield Terminal Building Project –
Abu Dhabi International Airport – Reduction of Advance Payment Guarantee
Attention: Al Hilal Bank The Manager
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Advance Payment Guarantee issued on behalf of M/s Advanced Industries Group LLC in
respect of the above contract and confirm reduction of the value for the following guarantees:
1.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900010 to be reduced to the new value of AED
1,824,802.12 (AED One Million Eight Hundred Twenty Four Thousand Eight Hundred Two and 12/100
Only).
2.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900011 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).
3.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900012 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).
4.
Advance Payment Guarantee No. MD1416900013 to be reduced to the new value of AED
912,401.07 (AED Nine Hundred Twelve Thousand Four Hundred One and 07/100 Only).

Sincerely on behalf of the TAV/CCC/ARABTEC JV,
Subject:

Closing Out Engineers Instructions - El 458 A

Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter referenced (3) above, regarding the subject matter, in which you are raising the
issue of a possible Extension of Time and payment of associated costs due to delays attributable to the
Employer and we hereby inform you the following.
The mentioned letter and the alleged delay notice are not compliant with the Terms and Conditions of
the Subcontract. You have not identified the relevant provisions of the Subcontract, which bring the
delay notification notices, Clauses 16.5[Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis].

We also highlight your contractual obligation to submit your notice in accordance with the requirements
of Clause 27.1.1 which states that “The notice shall be given as soon as practicable, and not later than
twenty-one (21) Days after the Subcontractor became aware, or should have become aware, of the
event or circumstance giving rise to such entitlement”, which you failed to do so.
Notwithstanding the matter of fact described above which would allow us to dismiss your letter/notice
outright, going past the confirmation of non-compliance with the Subcontract, we inform you that any
delay notice shall be in accordance with the relevant Clauses of the Subcontract as mentioned above
and shall demonstrate entitlement.
In addition to the above, pursuant to Clause 16.5.3, you should provide evidence that all reasonable
steps to avoid or mitigate the alleged delays have been taken. Also, it is a precondition under the
Subcontract to provide a detailed Time Impact Analysis as per Clause 27.2 showing what effect the
alleged event(s) has had on the programme and demonstrate the Critical Activities and Concurrent
Delays.
Also note that, since we are in receipt of your Prolongation Costs Submission, which is currently under
evaluation, we trust that you have already included this portion of extension of time and associated
costs, within your global Prolongation Costs Submission stated above.
Furthermore, your compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential. Consequently,
it is our position that the notice given under letter referenced (3) above, is not in line with both the
Subcontractor's related notifications and submission obligations prescribed in the Subcontract
Agreement.
Accordingly, we consider the issue closed and expressly reserve our rights under the Subcontract.
Subject:

Substantiation of Prolongation Costs

Dear Sir,
Further to your submission of Prolongation Costs with letter referenced (3) above and further to our
meetings regarding this matter, be informed that we have conducted a review of your submission and
we have identified that the submission needs further substantiation in line with the relevant provisions
of the Subcontract. We are hereby obligated to record that to date; we have not yet received all
required outstanding detailed particulars for your Prolongation Costs Submission.
In line with our previous correspondence regarding this matter, please note that the substantiation and
clarification are required to enable us to make our determination in regards to your entitlement. As
advised after our review, we request that you resubmit your Prolongation Costs taking in consideration
the following comments:

Section Notes
Section 1 - Contractual Costs Only summary sheet and Workmens Compensation document have
been provided. Workmens Compensation is for 140 employees (details need to be provided).
The APG, PBG and Public Liability documents are missing.
No substantiation for the fees claimed. Fees to be substantiated with invoices and receipts or any
reasonable substantiation.
Section 2 - Staff Costs Only summary sheets and organizational chart have been provided. Pay slips,
timesheets, MTB gate pass, employment contracts/offer letter need to be provided for S/C staff costs.
Section 3 - Plant and Machinery Costs Check attached document for detailed comments.
Section 4 - Labour Camp and Transportation Costs
No substantiation at all. Rental agreement and
invoices for accommodation & transportation and site attendance records for labour need to be
provided.
Section 5 - Other Prelims
Vehicle rent expenses need more detail; MTB car sticker, rental
agreement etc.
Invoice to be provided for each claimed costs.
Moreover, in order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, you are also
required to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for
each delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the
Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the
Critical Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time.
Also please note, that the format used for your Prolongation Costs is not the one you were advised of.
Hence, you are hereby requested to ensure that the format, contents and structure are prepared and
provided in an acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your Prolongation Costs in
line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and
27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract.
Failure to provide the necessary information will prejudice both the Subcontractor's entitlement and the
Contractor's ability to evaluate these Prolongations Costs to the satisfaction of all parties.
In view of the above and all previous correspondence on this matter, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order to be able to make our
determination.

This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Subject: Reduction of Advance Payment Guarantee- 401LGA152280001, Procurement of Material
Guarantee
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above, requesting
us to confirm the reduction of the Advance Payment Guarantee ref 401LGA152280001 - Procurement of
Material Guarantee, we hereby as requested, provide our confirmation that the said bond can be
reduced to AED 18,435,377.58.
We are at your disposal for any additional confirmation and/or clarification.
This is for your information and records.
Yours faithfully,
