Dear Sir,
Alan Stevens. Construction Manager
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
Engineer's Letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-00320 dated 18 Mar. 2013
Contractor's letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/000267 dated 10 Feb. 2013
Contractor's letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/000328 dated 07 Mar. 2013
Engineer's Review of RFV0/0401/0013 dated 3 Feb. 2013
Engineer's MOM ref. MTC-CMA-0401-EN-MOM-00013 dated 03 Dec. 2012
Response to Engineer's letter regarding Air-conditioning Units Containing
Refrigerant R-22 Claim No. C/Cost/0005
We refer to the above and we again reiterate that the Engineer's Instruction no. 9 constitutes a
Variation with respect to Temporary Works. We have provided the Engineer with abundant evidence
regarding the contractual requirements for ozone depleting refrigerants and fire suppression systems.
We hereby respond as follows (In the same order of the Engineer's comments):
o Reference to ADAC Program HSE Plan, Section 8.2, in particular paragraph 8.2.16. We maintain
that the requirements do not prohibit the use of ozone depleting refrigerants, and we reaffirm our

position in respect of such requirements as set out in our letter dated 07 March 2013.
The Engineer's letter dated 18 March 2013 stated that the ADAC Program HSE Plan "clearly
indicates_ that all equipment identified as containing ozone depleting substances shall be removed
from site".
In fact paragraph 8.2.16 refers to the disposal of ODS when found in existing equipment This
refers to the disposal of such gases upon decommissioning of such equipment at the end of its
life. Kindly refer to PART TWO: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS of the Program HSE Plan, Section 35
which clearly sets out the procedures for fitting units containing ODS and the reference to the
disposal upon the decommissioning of such equipment. This is the logical and correct
interpretation of the Specification which requires the Contractor to safely decommission and
remove ODS from units installed in temporary buildings at the end of their lifecycle (as per the
HSE Plan).
o Reference to Paragraph 4.B of Section 013543i and the Engineer's statement:
" .... The Estidama Principles ..... are more stringent than Section 8.2.16 of the ADAC Programme
HSE Plan, and therefore are to be implemented". We refer the Engineer to our prior correspondences on
this matter whereby we have provided
clear and unequivocal evidence that "Estidama Principles" do not apply to temporary facilities
(refer to Estidama Information Bulletin No. 3).
As further evidence, kindly refer to the enclosed copy of e-mail dated 1 April 2013 provided by the
Urban Planning Council- Estidama as an interpretation of the scope and applicability of Estidama
Informational Bulletin no. 3. As indicated the enclosed copy of the UPC confirmation "The RE-R3
requirements of the PBRS are to be applied on buildings required to comply with the Pearl Rating
System." The definition of buildings requiring compliance with the Pearl Building Rating System is
provided in Estidama Informational Bulletin no. 3. Hence the Engineer's statement that the
uEstidam·a Principles are defined as the mandatory credits in tile Pearl Building Systemj RE-R3 is
one of these credits_.." {ref. Engineer's Review of RFV0/0401/0013 dated 3 February 2013} is out
of context with respect to temporary facilities and is therefore not valid.
Had the Employer intended to impose a higher or different standard than that required by

Estidama, then such a requirement should have been set out in the Specification in the same
manner certain other requirements have been established within the particulars of Specification
Section 013543 (i.e. low-water use fixtures for "plumbing fixtures installed as port of temporary
construction", which are similarly not applicable to Temporary Works pursuant to the Estidama
principles).
<> Reference to Clause 12.24 of the Conditions of Contract, the Engineer again refers to "Local
Estidama Principles" as stated in Clause 4.B of Section 013543 and states that "Potentially
Hazardous Materials shall not exceed the values indicated in Schedule 12".
The Engineer should be aware that all refrigerants, including those which do not contain ODS are
also hazardous. Each type has its safe handlinCJ control measures and procedures and is regulated
by Applicable Law. In the Environmental Meeting No. 13 dated 03 December 2012, "SM replied
that JV can use R407c as an alternative to R-22". We note that R407c is also hazardous. Kindly
refer to enclosed safety data sheets (included as part of the enclosed WSP report).
Notwithstanding the Engineer's argument with respect to Potentially Hazardous Materials (Clause
12.24) and Deleterious Materials {Clause 12.31} and the reference to United Nations and World
Health Organization documents, we remind the Engineer that the Contract is governed by UAE law
and such Applicable Laws as established in the Conditions of Contract regulate and allow the use
of R-22. As a result, we maintain that the Engineer's allegation regarding ODS use " ... is a nonconformity
and therefore not acceptable" as not valid.
To validate our understanding of the Contract, the obligations flowing therefrom, as well as the
validity of the Engineer's NCR and correspondence on the matter, we appointed an expert (Tyron
Lawson, Technical Director, WSP Environment and Energy) to provide an independent review and
advice with respect to the use of R-22 in the context of the Contract and the Applicable Laws. We
refer the Engineer to the enclosed WSP report dated 1 April2013.
On the basis of the above we hereby notify you that the Engineer's NCR, instructions and rejection of
the Contractor's claim are contrary to the letter, intent and spirit of the Contract. Kindly be advised
that we are ready to replace any such required equipment; provided such requirements are instructed
by a properly issued Variation and confirmed by Variation Order in accordance with the appropriate

provisions of the Contract. We kindly request a conference with ADAC to discuss this matter to avoid
unwarranted escalation of
this issue. Please be guided accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
