Subject: Subcontractor's Claim no. C-188 Water Leakage on BHS Conveyors in L02
Dear Sir,
We hereby respond to your above referenced claim for additional costs for "188 Water Leakage on BHS
Conveyors in
L02".
It is noted that you first reported the incident on 26 July 2015. The Subcontract Agreement Conditions of
Contract
Clause 27.1.5 requires you to "send to the Contractor a fully detailed claim which includes full
supporting particulars
of the basis of the claim and of the extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of
additional
Cost and or adjustment to the Subcontract Price claimed". Under the same clause a claim should be
furnished within
twenty-eight (28) days "after the Subcontractor becomes aware (or should have become aware) of an
event or
circumstance giving rise to a claim" or if a continuing effect "within seven {7) Days after the end of the
effects
resulting from the event or circumstance".
The event upon which you appear to base your Claim C-188 occurred significantly longer ago than the
periods noted
above and could not be considered under any circumstances an on-going event. Therefore, the
Subcontractor has
failed to comply with the aforementioned obligation to furnish a final claim within the noted period.
We note that In accordance with Subcontract Agreement Conditions of Contract Clause 27.1.9 "The
requirements of
this clause 27.1 are in addition to those of any other provision of the Subcontract which may apply to a
claim. If the
Subcontractor fails to comply with this or another such provision in relation to any claim, any extension
of the
Subcontract Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and/or adjustment to the
Subcontract Price shall

take account of the extent (if any) to which the failure has prevented or prejudiced proper investigation
of the claim,
unless the claim is excluded under clause 27.1.2".
Notwithstanding the above we also highlight that the "Final Claim" fails to furnish any reason t hat the
alleged water
leak was the Contractor's responsibility, evidence that any real damage occurred from the spillage and
substantiation of costs claimed.
Therefore, the Contractor is unable to determine any entitlement for the event claimed.
Yours faithfully,
