Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0277
Changes in Design as a result of a Design Error to the Corridor located at Office Building L3.0 –
Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) / Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The event detailed in Annex A hereto, represents a change in Design as a result of a Design error that is
delaying the works and requires a valid EI and VO in order for us to integrate the same into the Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
The matters described in detail below, concern delays due a Design error and a change in Design to the
Corridor located at Office Building L3.0. The purpose of this E-Notice No. 0277 therefore is to provide a
detailed chronology of the various events and circumstances giving rise to such delay and elaborate on:
(1) the Design error; (2) the change in Design; and (3), the act(s) of prevention on your / the Employer’s
Design Consultant part that is impeding our ability to complete the Works by the Time for Completion.
Chronology of Events
On 5 August 2019, following numerous emails, correspondences, meetings and workshops with you and
the Employer’s Design Consultant (KPF) during which KPF raised its concern regarding the performance
of the Air Plenum Corridor located within Level L3.0 of the Office Building, we ourselves had doubts as
to the efficacy of the design; hence we issued a ‘Notice of Design Error’ by way of our letter ref: (1).
In our letter, we elaborated on KPF’s requirement to completely seal the concerned corridor to act as an
air plenum, to achieve a specific air flow rate to the architectural louvres at the same area, and
explained why as per the IFC Design, the corridor would fail to perform as an air plenum. We believe
our letter ref: (1) to be self-explanatory, but for the sake of clarity, we herewith expand on the matter as
per the below:
The Issued for Construction (IFC) Mechanical Drawings indicated six (6) displacement diffusers type DD-E
, to be installed in the service corridor to Level L3.0. The Architectural IFC Drawings however, show the
supply air ducts within the air plenum terminating at slab level, meaning there was a contradiction
between the Mechanical and Architectural IFC Drawings. To be more specific, the Mechanical Drawings

indicate DD-E diffusers to be installed on top of the ducts which extend / raise beyond the slab level in
the corridor, but the Architectural Drawings indicate air supply ducts to be installed up to the slab level
Despite the deficiency between the respective Drawings, for the reasons set out in letter ref: (1) and
repeated below, we adopted the design shown upon the Architectural IFC Drawings, and made it clear
that our corrective action was to remove the core elements of the displacement diffusers in the
corridor.
By way of explanation: As per the IFC Drawings, all the displacement diffusers consist of a core segment
and a shell segment. The core element is shown in the Mechanical Drawings and tagged as DD-A, DD-B,
DD-C, DD-E etc. and a schedule is provided to specify the required performance parameters, while the
shell element is shown in the Architectural Drawings tagged as "Perforated Metal Enclosure”.
As noted in letter ref: (1) in our Shop Drawing prepared for the concerned Corridor located at Office
Building L3.0, we referred to RFI/0401/6122, which was raised on 12 August 2014 for a similar issue for
the ‘Low Level Displacement Diffusers in L2.0’, in the manner shown in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1 – RFI/0401/6122
We received KPF’s response to RFI/0401/6122 on 27 August 2014, stating the following (Figure 2 refers):
Figure 2
KPF’s response to RFI/0401/6122 specified that:
1.
Diffuser at the concerned locations have no core element;
2.
Diffuser to have an air diffuser mat, behind metal mesh; and
3.
Duct terminates within the air plenum.
It can therefore be seen that numerous RFIs were raised owing to deficiencies and contradictions in the
IFC Design (including RFI Nos. 6122, 5177, 3275, 7553, 9300, and 9356); the IFC Design having failed to
provide a clear resolution for the floor displacement diffusers in various locations of the Project.
It was therefore made patently clear from the response to RFI/0401/6122 and the three items listed
above, that DDE displacement diffusers (which requires regular maintenance) would not be used,
especially in an enclosed space such as the corridor discussed herein, located at Office Building L3.0.
Therefore, since the corridor at Office Building L3.0 is a very similar case to the other locations discussed
in the abovementioned RFIs, we submitted our Shop Drawings taking cognisance of KPF’s comments
listed above (1 to 3) in response to RFI/0401/6122 i.e. without a core element and with an air diffuser
mat as shown in Figure 3 below, which it was subsequently approved by you / KPF, without comments.
Figure 3
In summary, the facts remain as follows:
•
The maintenance corridor housing the displacement diffusers core elements is very narrow
(Figure 5 refers). Consequently, if DDE displacement diffusers are installed, they will obstruct the access
throughout the full width and length of the corridor, because they are bulky elements;
•
In the event core elements of the displacement diffusers are installed, maintenance activities
will be unable to be carried out since the corridor will not be accessible anymore;
•
Installing displacement diffuser core elements will have no impact on the performance of the
system. This is because, the design intent is to supply cool air into the service corridor (that acts as an air
plenum) which will transfer the cool air to the public balcony (Figure 4 refers) through the air diffuser
foam (ADF-1 ), which is installed to the corridor’s façade (RFI/0401/8698 refers);
Figure 4

•
The relevant Shop Drawings were approved by you without any DDE displacement diffusers /
core elements indicated thereupon and were approved without any comments by you / KPF;
•
Numerous RFIs with similar cases, where the diffuser core elements have not been implemented
due to the presence of other façade diffusers, have been approved by you (described above);
•
The Corridor at the Office Building L3.0 and numerous air plenums in other locations, have been
tested and commissioned and readings show that the air flow values achieved are as per the design
requirements. The tests results show that 103% of the design intent has been achieved;
•
As per the IFC Design, the service corridor to Office Building L3.0, is not designed to be sealed.
Consequently, any of your / KPF’s concerns in regards to hot areas spotted on the Office Building public
balcony L3.0 (Figure 5 refers), will be resolved once the air plenum is completely sealed. This will ensure
that the required air flow rate is achieved outside of the architectural louvres. This however, will be a
change in design and will require issuance of an EI / VO as explained below.
Figure 5
As stated in our letter ref: (1), the air diffuser (ADF-1) is indented to serve the public balcony as an air
plenum (Figure 5 refers). However, a 2.5m height glass wall is installed at a distance that ranges from
2m - 4.3m from the building façade which is separating the Office Building from the Public Balcony.
Evidently, this wall prevents the cooled air from travelling from one side to the other. Moreover, the
velocity which the air will be travelling is considerably low due to the following:
•
Architectural plenum front face dimension is 3130mm x 17640mm (refer to RFI/0401/8698);
•
Total design flow is 7076 L/s.
Hence, the design velocity on the face of the architectural grill is approximately 0.12m/s in the case
where the entire plenum is fully sealed (top and sides). With such a low velocity and long distance to
travel, the supplied air travelling through the ADF-1 will not be able to overcome the glass wall barrier.
We made it patently clear in letter ref: (1), that the design provided by you, of the service corridor at the
Office Building L3.0, is not designed to be sealed and thus will not serve the design intent to act as an air
plenum. We also stressed that this matter needs to be discussed between you and KPF to ensure no
changes will be introduced at a later stage once the public balcony is served with insufficient cooled air.
Despite us issuing letter ref: (1) to you on 7 August 2019, you failed to respond until 159 calendar days
later on 13 January 2020, vide letter ref: (2), providing your / KPF’s position on the matter, advising us
“to provide a totally sealed plenum and shall re-submit the relevant Shop drawings for a final approval”.
In this regard we wish to respond to each of your / KPF’s respective points made in your letter as
follows.
Notwithstanding the fact that you failed to provide a suitable Design, in your letter ref: (2) you allegedly
stated that it is our “obligations to coordinate the works and therefore any delays resulting from the
Contractor's reluctance to promptly proceed with the works will remain the Contractor's responsibility”,
which we refute in its entirety. This is due to the fact that the concerned issue is not a matter of
coordination, but a Design error for which the Employer’s Design Consultant is responsible, not us. We
are not the designers for this Project, the Employer’s Design Consultant is. Consequently, we accept no
liability or responsibility for any inconsistencies in the Design; neither do we accept any responsibility for
overcoming any inconsistencies in the Design; this remains firmly with the Employer’s Design
Consultant.
According to the attached letter from KPF dated 29 December 2019 (ref: KPF-AECOM-2132-LTR-1589)
we “misinterpreted RFI-6122 response while reviewing the RFI-17045 response related to Maintenance
corridor lights. It is apparent that the Contractor thought that the displacement diffusers in Level 3.0 at
Office Building were removed which is clearly not the case per RFI-6122 response”. In this regard, for
the reason explained above, we have not misinterpreted the response RFI/0401/6122 at all. The corridor

at the Office Building L3.0 is very similar with the numerous other service corridors, including that
discussed in RFI/0401/6122. For this reason, RFI/0401/6122 was used as a reference to prepare our
Shop Drawing for the corridor located at the Office Building L3.0. This was approved by you without any
comments.
Additionally, KPF mentioned that “ln the RFl-6122 response, the requirement is to follow ASK 0535-(RFI3275) for the displacement diffuser core detail. Instead of using this sketch, the Contractor removed the
displacement diffusers without replacing anything in its place and capped off the ducts at floor level. The
removal of the diffuser is not prescribed by the Design Consultant”. Our response to this, is that in
RFI/0401/6122, you confirmed that there is no core element for the displacement diffuser and that an
air diffuser mat should be used behind the metal mesh, and this is exactly what we have implemented.
KPF’s letter continues by reminding us “that all mechanical and architectural IFC documents specify the
subject maintenance corridor areas as an “air supply plenum” and has DD-E displacement diffuser type.
Refer to MTC-A-32-TB-L-_-_-__-00-603 and MTC-M-02-TB-l3.0-5.18-001”. We put on record that the
corridor at the Office Building L3.0 is considered as a civil plenum (not Mechanical). In other words, it is
the floors, walls and roof of that space that would technically form the plenum. Since the IFC Drawings
do not show any roof to that corridor, then the corridor could not reasonably serve as an air plenum.
We record however, that despite KPF’s ‘position’ on the matter, they nevertheless, attached an entirely
new detail to their letter dated 29 December 2019 (Figure 6 refers) changing the IFC Design by providing
a top closure (roof) to the corridor so it can serve as a plenum; this is an unequivocal Design change.
Figure 6 – New Sketch SK001 - Rev 00
Despite this however, KPF continued to allege in its letter dated 29 December 2019 that “As per IFC
design intent and documentation, the plenum shall be fully sealed. The root cause of these discussions
on the plenum arrangement has been the result of the Contractor's failure to follow the IFC
documentation and to co-ordinate the services with the architectural design”. We refute this entirely
and reiterate that the IFC Design does not indicate the corridor to be sealed. In fact, the new sketch
enclosed in your letter ref: (2) reproduced in Figure 6 above, is evidence of fact that KPF is attempting to
change the Design.
In addition, KPF states in their letter that “The Design Consultant has notified the Contractor that the asinstalled system does not work and have participated in workshops with the Contractor to proactively
resolve the Contractor's error and omission”. We agree with KPF’s statement that the “as-installed
system does not work” and we wish to add to that, that it “does not [essentially] work [as intended to
work]”, based on the new requirements introduced by KPF for a sealed corridor. This is the reason we
issued letter ref: (1), after numerous meetings and workshops with you/KPF, to notify you, that
expecting the corridor to act as an air plenum without the corridor being sealed from top to side, is
unreasonable and is a ‘Design Error’. Nevertheless, we categorically refute KPF’s statement that this is
due to our “error and omission”, since as stated above we have no Design responsibility for the
concerned systems.
KPF concludes their letter by referring to the enclosed sketch (‘SK001 - Rev 00 dated 17 Dec 2019-Office
Building L3.0 Maintenance Corridor - Air Plenum Details’, an extract of which is provided in Figure 6
above) which provides a sealing to the concerned corridor for implementation, which is essentially a
Design change. In which respect we reinforce the fact that the Design, IFC Drawings and approved Shop
Drawings (i.e. 401-AG-A-03-30-5.00-HB-SD-002-Rev02, 401-AG-A-03-30-5.00-HB-S D-001-Rev0, 01-AG-A02-30-5.00-HB-SD-002-Rev02), do not indicate the Office Building L3.0 Maintenance Corridor to be
sealed and consequently this represents a de facto variation and change to our scope of Works.
SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and hence the
aforementioned change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and (VO) if you require us to
proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works. The provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of

SAA8 make it clear that we are not to proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a
Time/Cost Record have been issued first. It is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to
instigate change; this is only after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between
us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC Design to the extent we are able to.
While some of the RFIs cited above were raised prior the ‘Effective Date’ included in SAA8 (4 September
2018), this event cannot possibly be construed as forming part of the ‘Included Circumstances’ (per
Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8) and will be included within any forthcoming Time Impact Analysis, albeit in
recognition of the Effective Date included in SAA8, any delays will be analysed from 4 September 2018
onwards. SAA8 cannot reasonably be interpreted as requiring us to absorb delays of unknown (possibly
unlimited) duration occurring pre/post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the
matter causing the delay lies with the Employer. We contend therefore that under the circumstances
the responsibility, under the Contract (as amended by SAA8), for such delays lies with the Employer.
Yours faithfully,
