Subject:

Re: Refuge phone and signage configuration in egress staircases

Dear Sir,
We write in connection with the above mentioned subject and notify you that an Engineer’s Instruction
is required to proceed with the works. We note that this issue was discussed during the Risk Committee
Meeting on 4th November 2018 and via the minutes of meeting items no. 15 and C/T/1119, you
requested us to proceed in line with the response on RFI 16110 and the refuge locations signed off in
Briefing Pack 65.
Please note that, the refuge phone signage schedule and map design were not provided during Briefing
Pack 65 for each specific location, thus we raised this topic via our letter referenced (2) above where we
informed you about the lack of information in regards to the design and the possible cost and time
impact that this may have. The Engineer then responded with letter reference (3) requesting us to
submit a detailed claim for the event that gave rise to this delay.
In the meantime numerous meetings were taking place and the RFIs referenced (1) above had been
raised to clarify the issues regarding the missing design. Subsequently, the RFIs were responded on 11th
November 2018 which provided some of the information in regards to the design intent of the signage.
Along with the information provided with the mentioned RFIs, an Engineer’s Instruction is also required
to enable us to proceed with the works.
Please note that due to the fact that the quantity and design were not finalised in the BP65, this issue is
not deemed to be considered in the SAA8. Therefore, pursuant to the SAA8 Variation Clauses 2.29, 2.30
and 2.31 [Variations], notwithstanding the terms of Conditions of Contract Clause 20.3 [Variation
Procedure] the Engineer shall not instruct any Variation after the Amendment effective date of 4th
September 2018 unless all the requirements of these SAA8 Clauses have been fulfilled in their entirety.
Please let us know whether or not these changes are required, following which we will compile our cost
and programme impact (if any) proposal for your and ADAC’s agreement. If and when we receive a
Variation Order confirming agreement with our proposals we will proceed with these varied works.

Your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction is required; failing which the works are
likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
We reserve our rights under the Contract pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 (Contractor’s Claims) to an
extension to the Time for Completion and additional Costs arising from the above described event.
Yours faithfully,
