Subject:Unfair Status and Delay in Approval of Shop Drawings for the Pier Access Stairs in Concrete
Dear Sir,
Further to the above mentioned subject the Contractor requests the Engineer as follow.
We submitted RFI (1.) requesting confirmation of an agreement with the client team (Aecom and ADAC)
regarding the change in the Pier 1 to 4 access staircases Level 0.1 to Level 1.0 from steel to concrete. On
the 14 December 2014 we received a response and were informed that this is not a Request for
Information and constitutes a substitution and to follow the Substitution process as per Division 01 of
the specifications.
A Substitution request was submitted under reference (2.) on the 26 October 2016 and to date we are
still awaiting a response and approval of SR-C-003.
In parallel we undertook a value engineering exercise under reference (3.) and submitted our proposal
on the 03 November 2016.
In letter reference (4.) the Engineer stated that he is unable to assess our substitution proposal until in
receipt of a fully compliant submittal and instructed us to cancel the substitution SR-C-003 and to
submit a Value Engineering Proposal complete with all the supporting information.
Under letter reference (5.) we informed that Engineer that a Value Engineering Proposal
(VEP/0401/0024) was submitted and received by the Engineer on the 03 November 2016.
To date the current status of our shop drawings are as follow:
We herewith confirm our full compliance with the above mentioned requests. You are also in receipt of
all the documents necessary to complete your assessment of our proposals and to proceed with the
approval of shop drawings.
Furthermore, you are requested to proceed with and issue the outstanding approvals pursuant to Clause
1.7.2 and 1.7.4 of the Settlement Agreement and Addendum No. 8 with Effective Date 04 September
2018.
Any further delay in this approval will have an impact on our engineering activities and will become the
subject of a disruption of resources and delay.

Yours faithfully
