
Subject: Notice of Dispute- Scope of Works Clarification L7 Stainless Steel Conduits
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2324 dated 21st October 2015
pertaining to the
subject matter of 'Notice of Dispute- Scope of Works Clarification L7 Stainless Steel Conduits' and would
respond as
follows to the content of the same.
First and foremost your letter fails to deal with I address your contractual obligations regarding
Contractors
Instructions, the same being issued to you under cover of Letter Reference MTBITCAIANELILI001792
dated 19th
September 2015.
Whilst acknowledgement of your dispute is given particular attention has to be given to Clause 11.3.1 of
the
Subcontract Conditions (Contractors Instruction) whereas;
Clause 11.3.1
' ....... The Subcontractor shall comply with the instruction given by the Contractor on any matter related
to the
Subcontract, wherever practicable, instructions shall be given in writing'.
We would in this instance make reference to Contractors Instruction Reference
MTBITCAIANEL/CI/00296 which
accompanied our Letter MTBITCAIANELILI001792.
Dispute resolution Clause 27.3 is clear in that of the procedures that need to be in place, one of which
being that a
dispute arising out of or in connection with or relating to the Subcontract Works. Your silence on the
matter of
works progress is tantamount to refusal and it is therefore you who is in breach of your Subcontract
Agreement I
Conditions.
Nevertheless it has become abundantly clear that you have planned to fail. In our opinion the progress
of your
works in this matter is too slow, in some quarters this could be labelled 'non-existent'. In this instance
we would
both make reference and implement that of Clause 16.4 of the Subcontract Conditions in that;
Clause 16.4
Clause 16.4.1 It at any time:
the Contractor considers (acting reasonably) that actual progress is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract
Time for Completion:
progress has fallen (or will fall) behind the Subcontract Programme: and/or
the Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractor's
Programme or
other parts of the Contract Works.
then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit, under clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme), a revised
recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out in clause
16.3

(Subcontract Programme) and supporting .report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor proposes to
adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for Completion. These
revised methods
may include increases in the working hours and/or in the numbers of Subcontractor's Personnel and/or
Goods and/or
any other measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised Subcontract
Programme and
supporting report within seven {7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor may, acting
reasonably, if it
considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate, instruct the Subcontractor to
make such
amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and supporting report as it
considers
reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such amendments and/or
modifications.
In the meantime, please take this letter as confirmation under Clause 27.3 (Dispute Resolution) that a
suitable date
and time will be set aside to review the same, whereas we hope that you will use your best endeavours
to send a
representative who has the authority to discuss and settle this dispute. For ease of reference;
Clause 27.3.1
'In the event of any dispute, difference, controversy or claim between the parties arising out of or in
connection with
or relating to the Subcontract, representatives of the parties shall, within thirty (30) Days of a written
notice from one
Party (the notifying Party) to the other Party (a Dispute Notice), hold a meeting (a Dispute Meeting) in
an effort to
resolve the dispute or difference. Each Party shall use all reasonable endeavours to send a
representative who has
authority to settle the dispute or difference at the Dispute Meeting.'
All time and cost borne out of your refusal to comply with your contractual obligations will be for your
account and
in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3
In summary we hold you completely culpable for all time and cost implications in this regard and you are
instructed
to implement all corrective measures required without further delay.
We trust you find the aforementioned se lf-explanatory and you will carry out the necessary as a matter
of urgency.
If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
