Subject:Recovery of Overhead, Profit and Attendance due to the Omission of
Other Contractors -- Request for a Determination Pursuant to Clause 11.4
Dear Sir,

Works to Give to

We write in response to your rejection of our claims for damages resulting from the Employer’s breach
of the Contract through the Engineer’s omission of works for the purposes of awarding that work to
other contractors (references 1,2,3, 7).
The Employer has breached the Contract through:
1.
The omission of the Defined Provisional Sum for Items 4/P/1/M, N, 0 & P, involving Stakeholder
and Retail Spaces (reference 6).
2.
The omission of the provisional sum for the hotel fit out (reference 5); and
3.
The omission of the beam seating (reference 4).
In all three cases, the work is required for a fully functional airport. Therefore, in all three cases, the
Engineer has omitted these works in order to give the same, or substantially similar, work to another
contractor.
The Engineer has rejected each of the Contractor’s claims for lost overhead and profit resulting from the
Employer’s breeches. Therefore, the Contractor respectfully requests that the Engineer issue a
determination on this matter within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.

Given the protracted correspondence on this issue, the Contractor will restate its position below so that
its position is stated in a single document.

Basis of the Claim under the Contract:
The original terms of the Contract were included within the request for tender. As the Employer has
recently summarised: “The Contract is a bespoke contract that was heavily negotiated by the Employer
and the Contractor. While the parties did negotiate some terms of the Contract, the operative
provisions at issue were unchanged during the negotiations.
The Contract defined a scope of work which the Contractor was to perform for a lump sum price. The
Contract requires that the Contractor complete that full scope of the Works, and the Employer agreed
to compensate the Contractor to complete the Works. Thus, the Contractor not only has the obligation,
but also the right, to complete the Works and receive the Contract Price.
As is typical in construction contracts, the Contract contemplates that the Employer might want to omit
certain items from the Project. To that end, Clause 1.1 [Definitions] defines a “Variation” to include "a)
the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof". Further, Clause 11.3.1
[Instructions of the Engineer] empowers the Engineer to issue the Contractor “instructions and
additional or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the execution of the Works
… all in accordance with the Contract” and Clause 20.1.1 [Right to Vary] authorises the Engineer to
instruct Variations.
This language cannot reasonably be read to permit the Employer to de-scope work in order to award
that work to another contractor. Rather, consistent with the contractual arrangement, the Engineer
may only instruct the genuine omission of items. If the Engineer’s rights were unfettered, the Employer
could take advantage of cost reductions by awarding work to other contractors while leaving the
Contractor saddled with items of work for which there were cost escalations.
The parties recognised as much. For example, Clause 22.2.4 [Termination by employer for Contractor
Default] states that where the Employer de-scopes the Contractor's work for cause, the Engineer:
[M]ay instruct another contractor to carry out such omitted work and the Contractor shall have not
claim for loss of profit or contribution to overheads which it would have earned but for such omission.
[...]. The Employer's right to omit a section(s) pursuant to this clause 22.2.4 shall be without prejudice to
the Employer's right any time to omit any part or section(s) of the Works pursuant to clause 20.1 (Right
to Vary) but shall not be subject to any restrictions on giving of such omitted work to another contractor
any time.

Such a provision would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided the Employer the unfettered
right to omit works to give to other contractors. Indeed, if the Employer could omit works for whatever
reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be entirely redundant with the
authority conferred under Clause 20.1.1; it would also permit the Engineer to avoid the Contractor's
procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission.
This plain reading of the Contract is reinforced by Articles 246 and 265 of the UAE Civil Code. Article 246
provides:
(1) The contract must be performed in accordance with its contents, and in a manner consistent with
the requirements of good faith.
(2) The contract shall not be restricted to an obligation upon the contracting party to do which is
[expressly] contained in it, but shall also embrace that which is appurtenant to it by virtue of law,
custom, and the nature of the disposition.
Further, Article 265 provides that:
[I]f there is scope for interpretation of the contract, an enquiry shall be made into mutual intentions of
the parties without stopping at the literal meaning of the words, and guidance may be sought in so
doing from the nature of the transaction, and the trust and confidence which should exist between the
parties in accordance with the custom current in dealing
In this case, the Engineer’s instruction to omit works to give to others is inconsistent with the
contractual relationship: it unjustly deprives the Contractor the right to earn a profit on the full scope of
its work. Also, as will be explained below, it is industry practice to read such clauses as prohibiting the
Engineer from omitting works to give to other contractors
Response to Engineer’s Arguments
The Engineer claims that three provisions of the Contract permit it to omit work for any purpose
whatsoever, including to award to other contractors:
a) The definition of Variation in Clause 1.1;
b) The definition of “Defined Provisional Sum” found in Clause 1.1; and
c) The BOQ preambles.
None of these provisions support the Engineer’s position.
a) The definition of “Variation” only permits genuine omissions:

The Engineer asserts that because the definition of “Variation” includes the word “omission”, the
Employer is free to omit works for whatever reason without consequence. (References 1,2,3,7.) This is
not what the word “omission” means.
Every single commentary, and every court that has interpreted such language, has come to the
conclusion that "a provision giving the owner or his [engineer] a power to make omissions only
contemplates genuine omissions, that is, works which it is intended should not be carried out at all".
For example, Al Sanhouri, states in his commentary:
The Employer must […] not omit the works from the contractor after having promised him to undertake
such works for a lawful cause. [This is because the Employer] is not allowed to unilaterally go back on
his consent with respect to the contract except within the limits and pursuant to the conditions
stipulated by law.
In Carr v JA Berriman Pty Ltd, the contract contained a clause saying that: "The Architect may in his
absolute discretion, and from to time, issue .... written instructions or written directions ... in regard to
the ... omission ... of any work.'" In holding that it was a breach of contract for the architect to invoke
this clause to omit works to give to other contractors, the High Court in Australia reasoned:
The clause is a common and useful clause, the obvious purpose of which - so far as it is relevant to the
present case - is to enable the architect to direct additions to, or substitutions in, or omissions from, the
building as planned, which may turn out, in his opinion, to be desirable in the course of the performance
of the contract. The words quoted from it would authorise the architect (doubtless within certain limits,
which were discussed in R v Peto (1826) 1 Y & J 37; 48 E.R. 577 to direct that particular items of work
included in the plans and specifications shall not be carried out. But they do not, in my opinion,
authorise him to say that particular items so included shall be carried out not by the builder within
whom the contract is made but by some other builder or contractor. The words used do not, in their
natural meaning, extend so far, and a power in the architect to hand over at will any part of the contract
to another contractor would be a most unreasonable power, which very clear words would be required
to confer. (Emphasis added.)
Similarly, in Gallagher v. Hirsh, the contract provided that: "Should the [employer] at any time during
the progress of the said building request any alteration, deviation, additions or omissions from the said
contract he shall be at liberty to do so." In finding that the employer breached the contract in omitting
this work to award to another contractor, the Appellate Division in New York State held that:
The words are, 'additions or omissions from the said contract,' evidently meaning additions to or
omissions from the work to be done under said contract, which clearly negatives the idea that they were
intended to mean that the [employer] should have the right to omit the work from the plaintiffs
contract, in order to give the contract to another to do the same thing. (Emphasis added.)

More recently, the High Court of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Court of First Instance
construed a variation provision that permitted the instruction of the “addition, omission or alteration of
work items required to complete the Project.” Holding that “it would require clear language to support
a construction” that the employer was permitted to exclude works entirely that were required to
complete the project, the court found that the language was not sufficiently clear to permit the
employer to descope works for purposes of awarding that work to other contractors.
While the Contractor appreciates that these authorities are not from UAE courts, the authorities are
persuasive because they interpreted the very English-language terms used in the Contract. Moreover,
they evidence the industry standard in construction contracts. This is a mega-project in which the
Employer solicited tenders from international construction firms. Certainly, the Employer should have
been familiar with the terms it was proposing and the fact that they had a settled meaning in the
industry. Such industry custom and practice is, as a matter of UAE, directly relevant to the
interpretation of a contract.

b) The definition of “Defined Provisional Sum” only contemplates genuine omissions
With respect to the omissions of the provisional sum claims, the Engineer asserts that the definition of
"Defined Provisional Sum" permits the Employer to omit such items for purposes of instructing other
contractors. (Reference 1,2, and 7.) The Engineer relies upon the definition of "Defined Provisional
Sum", which is, "a sum included in the Contract Price ... for the execution of any part of the Works ...
which sum may be used, in whole or in part, to not at all, on the instructions of the Engineer."
Again, authorities are in agreement that this language does not permit the Engineer to omit Defined
Provisional Sums in order to award that work to other contractors. To the contrary:
Provisional sum work has been treated as definitive and not contingent, so that its omission under a
power to vary, if intended to have the work done by another Contractor, has been held to be outside
the power and in breach of contract entitling the Contractor to damages.
For example, in Hydro Holdings, the contract included a provisional sum for a nominated subcontractor
but the employer directly awarded that work to another contractor. In holding that the employer's
omission of provisional sum work to reallocate to another contractor constituted a breach of contract,
the Court held that, based on “common sense and business morality”:
Under the terms of most contracts, an employer who exercises a power to omit work must genuinely
require the work not to be done at all, and cannot exercise such a power with a view to having the work
carried out by someone else.

Similarly, in Amec Building Limited v. Cadmus Investments Co Limited, the employer omitted work
relating to a provisional sum and later awarded it to a third party. The court noted that the contract
provided the architect "the power ... in his sole discretion to withdraw any work from provisional sums
for whatever reason if he considers it in the best interests of the contract or the employer so to do."
Despite this, the court affirmed the award of lost profits for the omission of provisional sum work to give
to another contractor.
While the Contractor appreciates that this Contract is governed by UAE law, these authorities: (a)
directly opine on the language used in the Contract; and (b) establish that there is an industry practice
and that practice is relevant to the interpretation of the Contract as a matter of UAE law.
c) BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 is not relevant
The Engineer relies upon BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 which states that "[t]he Contractor shall not be
entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the value of any omitted works." (References 1,2,3.)
This reliance too is misplaced.
First, this clause is inapplicable because the Contractor is seeking damages for a breach of contract and
not for an omissions. As Emden's Commentary notes, "if an omission takes away work in order to have
it carried out by another contractor, it seems unlikely this will be a variation, but will be a breach of
contract." As such, this clause is not relevant and does not exculpate the Employer from paying the
Contractor what is due as a matter of law. Second, for the same reasons explained above, the words
"omission" within Preamble 12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not
relevant.
*
*
*
Based upon the above, the Contractor cannot concur with the Engineer’s position. Accordingly, the
Contractor requests that the Engineer render a determination within meaning of Clause 11.4.1 with the
impartiality and competency required by the Contract.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor is separately claiming for the costs of extra coordination, the
provision of materials to other contractors, and the delay and/or disruption to its work caused by the
other contractors.
Subject:Store yard - Unsecured East Airfield Near ATCC
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of a notification from the Employer regarding the lack of security measures at the
store yard areas as per the subject matter. Please note that as per Clause 4.1.1 of Schedule 22 [4.1.1
Security of the Subcontractor Works (clause 12.14.3 (d))], you are solely responsible for the safety
obligations related to your Subcontract works. Furthermore, Clause 5.4 under Schedule 22 [Security of

the Site (clause 12.28)] states that “The Subcontractor shall provide security of his lay-down area,
offices, workshops and storage facilities as per the conditions mentioned under Facilities Responsibility
Matrix (Appendix “K”)”. Accordingly, be informed that the safeguard of the store yards which will ensure
that all HSE procedures are being followed at all times is your responsibility.
Consequently, after you have been requested to provide the required security measures numerous
times and since you have failed to do so, we hereby inform you that we have taken all necessary
measures on your behalf to safeguard your store yards and laydown areas . Hence, please be informed
that all required resources have been deployed and security on a twenty-four (24) hour basis has been
allocated at the areas as shown in the enclosure (marked with orange colour). Specifically, two (2)
Security checkpoints with all the required facilities have been successfully established and four (4)
security officers during dayshift and four (4) during nightshift, total eight (8) security officers have been
deployed at the lay down area near ATCC since 7th April 2018 at 18:00 hrs.
Additionally, please be informed that further action must be taken to improve the following matters:
•
All routes/pathways have to be properly segregated; currently, there is no proper segregation.
Please do the needful;
•
Housekeeping must improve immediately;
•
Placement of fencing around the perimeter of the laydowns;
•
It has been noticed that the materials are not stored and covered appropriately. Please ensure
that materials are stored and covered properly;
•
Prepare and circulate safety warning flyers representing any hazards/risks;
•
Ensure that there is a proper entry/exit for all of the laydowns;
•
Ensure that there is adequate lighting during night shift around all concerned areas;
•
Assign emergency personnel and ensure that their contact numbers are displayed as
“Emergency Contacts” in case they are needed at any given time.
In light of the above information, you are informed that you are required to comply at all times with the
Project’s procedures and all of the HSE processes in place.
This is for your information, records and further action.
Yours faithfully,
