This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1to initiate a variation. The nature and extent of the
variation is outlined below.
The Variation as proposed:

Station entrances shall be optimized with respect to minimum number of vertical transportation
elements, the size and height of shelters and run off area. However, the optimization as stated
hereunder shall apply to entrances as recommended in the attached conceptual presentat ion.
The minimum length of run-off areas may be reduced to 4m for types other than A. Run-off areas shall
not overlap.
Wher e waiting areas are required (types BW and BWR),a minimum of six (6) seats shall be provided.
To optimize (reduce) the height of the shelters for all types apart from A. Contractor shall consider the
lift speed m/s, car clear height 2.3m,headroom height 1.4m,min clearance between lift enclosure and
roof 0.2m.
For types D and E standalone lifts are acceptable.
Type E does not have a shelter and the entrance door/ air curtain to the AC controlled area shall be
positioned underground. Adequate signage on the status of the station to be provided at surface level.

M006-QRC-EMT-IST-00113

Page 1of 2

qr com qa

Cl....-.,! 9J '9

..'

ij "') ·;

Accompl ishing a Vision

For types C, D and E, vertical transportation in the non-peak direction shall be by fixed stairs.
Contractor to assess if relaxation of RAM target/Employer's Requirement is required for stations with
one
(1)

lift per entrance.

Contractor is to standardize component parts and shelter types as part of the design process. Consider
the status of the Architectural Finishes Provisional Sum Tender as follows:
i.

Incorporate changes into tender documents where the tender is yet to be released. ii.
Incorporate changes into tender bulletin where the tender has been issued.

iii.
Incorporate changes through design development where tenders have already been
received / accepted.
Due to the urgency of this change and the delay in receipt of the Contractor's quotation, this instruction
has been issued prior to the receipt of Contractor's quotation, referenced above. The Contractor is still
required to provide the directed quotation under Sub-Clause 13.2.1without further delay.

Yours faithfully,
