Dear Sir,

We acknowledge the receipt of the above mentioned letter regarding Souq Waqif Progress. The
contents of the letter, specifically with regards to the Contractor’s response to deal with the excessive
ingress of water is incorrect. It takes no account of the professional and structured response the

Contractor has applied to deal with this unforeseen inflow of water and mitigate the impact of this
event.

The statements made are limited to accusations that do not reflect the complete overview of events and
actions taken.

For the record and to refute the accusations made we limit this response to the comments made in the
referred letter. For a comprehensive summary of actions taken since the unforeseen event occurred, we
refer to the various regular meetings conducted between ALYSJ representatives and EA’s / Qatar Rail
representatives over the last weeks.

The unforeseen event of the excessive inflow of water occurred on the eastern side of the station box in
the evening of 25th August. At the time of the occurrence the excavation had reached final formation
level (-23.75m QND) in certain areas of the station box. On average the approximate excavation level in
the eastern part of the station box was 0.5m above formation level.

Your note that “the station box excavation stopped and prevented the commencement of preparation
and concrete works to the base slabs” is an obvious direct result of the above referred unforeseen
event.

The Engineer’s Assistant continues to make statements such as “the Contractor has not directed enough
resources to mitigate the effects of the high inflow rates seen at the current construction excavation
level. Specifically, (1) the Contractor has failed to mobilise additional grout crews to enable 24 hour
grouting of the initial inflow, (2) has not undertaken actions to procure additional outfall pipes from the
site across Bank Street and Souq Waqif, or (3) to an identified Asghal manhole into 600 mm dia pipe,
and (4) not mobilised Ground Investigation drilling rigs in order to gather more data”.

The Contractor places the following response on record regarding the above EA’s statements:
1)
Immediately the morning after the event occurred (26th August) technical discussions were
conducted with the specialized subcontractor and plan of action was prepared to block the excessive
inflow of water. This grouting requires special grouting material (sodium silicate) and injection tubes

(steel TAM tubes). This specialized material and equipment was mobilized during the remainder of the
day and the grouting commenced during the nightshift and continued for 3 consecutive night shifts.
Since the borehole where the water feature occurred was not accessible an access ramp and platform
for the grouting plant was constructed during the day of the 26th August. 24 hour grouting is not
recommended by the specialized subcontractor in these cases as continuous grouting will prevent the
injected grout to settle and block the inflow of water. This is a delicate process which is done in
staggered stages. The day shift was utilized to reinstate the access ramp and install a safe working
platform

2)
The Contractor responded immediately with regards to the dewatering capacity the morning
after the event occurred by conducting technical discussions with the specialized subcontractor and
agreed on a plan of action to substantially increase the dewatering capacity at the station box. Before
the following nightshift 3 nos of 8 inch/37 kW/157 ltr/s high capacity pumps, 2 nos of generators,
separate discharge lines for each of the high capacity pumps, extra settlement tank and booster pumps
were mobilized. The enhanced dewatering system was subsequently installed and before the end of the
night shift the first additional high capacity pump was operational through a separate system. This
immediate action was focused on enhancing the dewatering system in the shortest time possible. The
installation of an additional outfall pipe from the site across Bank Street and Souq Waqif is an operation
which requires more time to implement as it directly requires a NOC from PEO for the installation of the
HDD crossing and pipelines on their land. For your information this NOC from PEO is still pending. The
procurement of the additional outfall lines is secured and not critical.

3)
The additional discharge to the identified 600m dia Asghal system has been installed and is
operational. As highlighted under item 2) the immediate action taken was to enhance the pumping
capacity within the station box and increase the discharge capacity through the existing outfall pipes to
SW1 as this has the most immediate effect. The installation of the emergency outfall to the 600 dia
Asghal system has only a very limited capacity and therefore attended to as second priority.

4)
In order to gather additional geotechnical information and investigate the karstic feature the
Contractor mobilized Geophysical Survey directly after the inflow of water was blocked by the
specialized grouting contractor and the station box was accessible to perform reliable geophysical
surveys. The Geophysical Survey was conducted on the 3rd September 2015 and the results have been
made available on 5th September. Additional Geophysical Survey was performed after analyzing the first
results and further Geotechnical plans were developed on the basis of these results.

The Engineer’s Assistant furthermore refers to the settlement of the adjacent Mosque and the ongoing
remedial grouting to mitigate this settlement. ALYSJ JV refers to various meetings, letter and reports

which specifically attends to this issue and deemed that this is adequately covered in separate
communications.

We furthermore refer to the various meetings conducted with Qatar Rail / EA / ALYSJ & Atkins on 2nd
September; 12th September; 14th September, 16th September and 22nd September 2015 regarding this
critical issue. During these meeting ALYSJ and its lead designer Atkins presented various options to
mitigate the impact of this event from both a Geotechnical perspective and Structural Design
perspective. We record that the most preferable Design Solution was mutually agreed by all parties
involved and our Lead Designer Atkins is currently developing this into a detailed design.

We assure you that all possible effort, visible and behind the scenes is being employed to mitigate the
impact of the unforeseen event of excessive inflow of water. The primary aim of the mitigation
measures is to “Not impact the planned TBM arrival at Souq Waqif station”. Further mitigation measures
are being investigated and if possible implemented to meet the KITO dates. A detailed program for the
mitigation measures is being developed and will be issued to the Engineer’s Assistant for review as soon
as possible.

We trust this clarifies the situation and demonstrates that the Contractor has diligently investigated all
possible measures and carried out the most appropriate required to resolve this critical issue on the
Gold Line project.

Yours faithfully,
