Dear Sir,

The Contractor is aware of the importance of achieving project Key Interface and Taking Over (KITO)
dates. The Contractor has also been told that the Employer will not give relaxation to the requirements
in the Contract to achieve these dates and the Time for Completion, see Reference (1).

It is therefore of significant concern that the Contractor's monthly revised programme updates continue
to show evidence of delay to actual progress with a reciprocal lack of effective mitigation. Th Engineer's
Assistant provides, as Attachment (1), graphical representation of the actual float erosion being seen on
a representative sample of KITO milestones over recent months. This representation is based on the
Contractor's monthly revised programme submissions, where the results show a trend of significant
float erosion on the KITO Dates.

On top of the above, through the same revised programme submissions, the Contractor has adopted the
position, that Tunnel MEP and emergency exit works do not form part of the Tunnel Take Over scope
(TNTO) and that the station subways do not form part of KITO STKID.03.This is incorrect.

The Engineer's Assistant has been emphasizing these concerns through a number of letters, where
instructions have also been issued to the Contractor to submit revised programmes and supporting
reports under Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.5.1 'Rates of Progress', refer to Attachment (2).

Following discussions and receipt of letters, examples of which include Reference (8) & (9), the
Engineer's Assistant is concerned that the Contractor may be relying upon the ultimate outcome of
claims for which notices have been served, as a means of justifying non response to instructions under
Clause 8.5.1'Rates of Progress'. In this event, the Contractor is referred to Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.4.1
'Extension of Time for Completion', which states:

.,'
•

l

.,

l ),. l

1- •

Louis Berger ®egis rail
LB ER JV

"The Contractor shall be entitled to an extension of the Time for Completion if and to the extent
Completion for the purposes of Sub-Clause 10.1 (Taking Over of the Works and Sections) is or will be
delayed by any of the following clauses:

(a) a Variation (unless an adjustment to the Time for Completion has been agreed under Sub-Clause
13.2.3(b) or 13.2.3(c));
(b)
a cause of delay expressly stated in these Conditions as giving an Entitlement to an extension of
time under the Contract; or
(c)

a material breach of the Contract by the Employer."

This Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.4.1 'Extension of Time for Completion' is the only applicable condition
where a revised programme under Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.5.1 'Rates of Progress' may not apply.
As part of submission Reference (7), the Contractor has more recently informed that all previous
Engineer's Instructions under Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.5.1 'Rates of Progress', were addressed through
submitted monthly programme updates. This cannot be correct, as none of those updates provided
supporting reports describing any revised methods which the Contractor proposed to adopt in order to
expedite progress, following Instruction under clause 8.5.1.

The Engineer's Assistant remains of the opinion that unless more effective measures are put in place,
the float erosion will continue, resulting in ultimate non-achievement of several KITO dates. This must
be averted.

The En ineer's Assistant therefore refers the Contractor to Attachment (2) and reinforces the need for
the Contrac r to provide specific response to the identified Volume 3, Sub-Clause 8.5. 1 'Rates of
Progress' instructi ns within 14 days of receipt of this letter.

Yours faithfully,
