Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0257
Late and Unreasonable Status Code 3 Comments Issued in Response to Document Submittal
DS/0401/L/15394 Rev. 00 ‘Structural Design Calculation Report - WIFI Antenna Bracket on Existing Sign
Totem’
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.

Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto concern delays associated with the late and unreasonable
Status Code 3 comments issued in response to Document Submittal No. DS/0401/L/15394 Rev. 00 for
the Structural Design Calculation Report associated with the WIFI Antenna Bracket for Existing Sign
Totem.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Introduction
On 4 March 2020, we submitted Document Submittal No. DS/0401/L/15394-00 (refer to Table 1),
seeking your approval of the ‘Structural Design Calculation Report - WIFI Antenna Bracket on Existing
Sign Totem’.
Table 1
Date Submitted Submittal Ref No:
Rev
Description of Contents Response due per Section
013300 Response Received
Status Code
Response Overdue By
4-Mar-20
DS/0401/L/15394
00
Structural Design Calculation Report - WIFI Antenna
Bracket on Existing Sign Totem 25-Mar-20
29-Mar-20
3
4 Calendar days
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our Submittals. On the basis that DS/0401/L/15394 is at
Rev. 00, then this ought to have been responded to by you 21 calendar days later, i.e. on 29 March
2020. However, the information recorded in Table 1 shows you exceeded the contract review period by
4 calendar days.
Our entitlement to an extension of time and to recover the associated costs resulting from this act of
prevention on your part and / or the part of the Employer’s Personnel/Consultants, will apply
irrespective of any alleged failure on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you in a timely
manner.
Notwithstanding, we note that the response to DS/0401/L/15394-00 contains what we contend are a
series of unreasonable comments, despite the ‘Structural Design Calculations’ for the WIFI Antenna
located at Gatehouse ‘GH4’ being compliant. The following represents an extract of the
DS/0401/L/15394-00 and indicates your Status Code 3 (Revise and Resubmit) comments annotated
thereupon (refer to Figure 1).
Figure 1
The information recorded in Table 2 below, records each of the foregoing comments alongside which we
have provided a corresponding response justifying why we believe the comments are unreasonable.
This also indicate whether the comments have any actual impact upon, or risk, to the Design
Calculations.
Table 2

Engineer Comments
Contractor’s Response Impact on the calculation content-risk for further works
KPF Comments:
1. Comments may be applicable to similar conditions elsewhere.
2. Contractor is responsible for coordinating drawings with requirements of structural calculations.
3. See reviews for similar submissions for further comments.
4. See additional comments within the submission.
Noted. We are responsible and confident about
more than 50% overdesigned light bracket that holds 10kg of WI-FI gears.
None.
Critical Comment:
If the mounting bracket is assembled from parts welded together, then additional calculations will be
required to substantiate the weld area. We respectfully note that this comment is not valid and thus
not acceptable. The reviewer is kindly asked to look again at page no 4, which presents a catalogue page
of the casted aluminium bracket.
None. Since the comment is not valid.
NACO Comments:
1. Ensure structural adequacy of primary supporting member. As the totem calculation is not included in
this DS, it is expected Contractor will submit a revised calculation for the totem to ensure the totem
structure is adequate to support these additional loads. We strongly disagree with this comment, since
this Document Submittal and its content, is subject and limited to the WI-FI bracket only, not the
bracket medium. Therefore, the reviewer’s scope is to check and confirm structural integrity of the
bracket only. The totem by its purpose and nature is designed to take extra loads, we therefore fail to
see why the calculations have to be revised for the totem.
None. Since the comment is not valid.
2. Ensure frequency check and investigate any potential resonance problem likely to occur (if
applicable).
We strongly disagree with this comment. As per the industry standards and the
structural standards, the frequency of the WIFI waves has never formed part of a structural check. The
WIFI waves are not creating any disturbance to any of the components of the brackets. None, since the
comment is not valid
3. Wind pressure need recheck. Ensure correct height factor considered confirm with respect to actual
ground level. We strongly disagree with the stated comment. The reviewer is kindly asked to revisit
pages 3 and 8, where actual height and related factors as per UBC 1997 vol. 2 are considered.
Additionally, to be noted that the factors considered are taken as a maximum and as a very unlikely
event, meaning that the final figure of the wind pressure is overdesigned.
None,
since
the
comment is not valid
4. Wind pressure when compared with wind pressure as per AASHTO’s LTS, applied wind pressure
seems lesser. Please check remark on respective page. We respectfully note that, the reviewer does
not have any right to force the design as per its preferred codes. So far, within these 8 years on this
project we executed many of the designs including wind as per UBC 1997 vol 2 which have not met with
any objection or rejection until now. We are kindly requesting the reviewer to obtain and maintain a
systematic approach of the review process, where at the end of any review, there is an overall
assessment of the design even if comments are written. None, since the comment is not valid
5. Dissimilar material if used, shall not be influenced by bimetallic corrosion.
This is more of a
statement rather than a comment. Therefore, we strongly reject this statement by clarifying that both
materials, use aluminium and stainless steel which are NON-RUST MATERIALS. If reviwer is focusing on
“cathode-anode “ effect on the molecular level, we can disable this effect by separating stainless steel
bolts from aluminium brackets with sylicon. Before tying the bolts we will fill the holes with sylicone
following manufacturer recommendation and create separation layer. The sylicone will be used with
polymer for long duration and heavy duty.
None, since comment is not valid
6. Any part of calculation, which is not applicable / relevant to present DS, shall be removed from DS.
Answered in below row: “others comments”. None, since the comment is not valid
Others comments:

About aluminium alloys, yield stress, bolted and welded connections, non-necessary pages in
calculations. -In engineering practice it is very well known that rarely the pure aluminium material is
used as the building materials. It is always alloyed aluminium and most used strength of such aluminium
is around 160N/mmsq. The yield strength around 160 N/mmsq is available in all engineering design
books and such is accepted as conventional. Welded connection is following the same conventional
approach. Also please note that designed structure is having overall stress ratio of 0.5 taking all safety
factors and selecting maximum end forces. Meaning that there is an extra 50% of capacity not used that
brings more comfort for alloyed materials.
-Regarding bolted connected between bracket’s parts, please note that treads are never checked, since
treads are having much capacity than the actual core, due to the fact that treads are distributing the
force along its tread’s lines.
-For pages not required and commented to be removed please note that we are using a prepared excel
sheet as it is the most common practice in the engineering, which is having multiple options and
elements to calculate. So, the comment for collateral page is not recognized since you are not
presenting any risk for the calculation’s content and the same is clearly marked in calculation as “not
applicable”.
None, since the comment is not valid
We believe our response to your comments is self-explanatory and comprehensive, and fully supports
the fact that the Status Code 3 comments annotated upon DS/0401/L/15394-00 are unreasonable
In view of this, we hereby notify you that your overdue and unreasonable response to
DS/0401/L/15394-00, will invariably delay the completion of the WIFI Antenna located at Gatehouse
‘GH4’ and related works and will result in consequential delays to inspections; thereby invariably
delaying the Time for Completion.
Accordingly, we urge you to consider re-coding DS/0401/L/15394-00 by return in order to avoid any
further unnecessary delays. Please note that we shall seek an extension of time and financial
compensation for any delays (and associated costs) incurred to date and/or which may be incurred by us
as a result of your late and unreasonable comments and unnecessarily coding DS/0401/L/15394-00
Status Code 3.
Yours faithfully,
