Subject:Re: Back Charge Notification – BIM Services
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (6), wherein you rejected the backcharges issued via our
letter referenced (5) above.
The issue of not accepting the BIM backcharges, has been ongoing since 2015 and the fact that you have
not yet complied with your Subcontract obligation is unacceptable. There are already numerous
correspondences submitted providing all of the details and our position on the matter, including but not
limited to our correspondences referenced above.
In view of the above, we note and reiterate the following:
•
The statement in your letter not accepting the backcharges has no contractual basis. It is noted
that such statements do not act in good faith towards your contractual obligations and shall be avoided;
•
All terms and conditions of the LOA referenced (1) shall apply to the VOs mentioned in your
letter (5);
•
You are referred to the “Facilities Responsibility Matrix” in Appendix K of the LOA items I12 and
I13, where your obligations regarding BIM are clearly shown;
•
Therefore, your statement that “all design and design work has never been part of our scope
and, as such, any BIM work is thereby also excluded” has no contractual basis and is hereby refuted. To
be clear, even though the design is indeed not part of your scope, however, the BIM deliverables clearly
form part of your scope;
•
We put on record your failure to submit BIM models. We hereby enclosed a list of the BIM
models, which you have failed to provide.
•
The sample model that was submitted by you to (for the EDI finalization) did not include the
right coordinates;
•
Numerous emails (a list of emails is hereby enclosed) have been sent to you requesting the BIM
models to be provided.

You are hereby reminded that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by
us arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your
responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractor’s
Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your information and record.
Yours faithfully,
