Subject Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
Dear Sir;
We examined your reference letter dated 26 September 2016 regarding Breach of Contract in Relation
to Contractors
Instructions.
We acknowledge receipt of your above reference letter and would confirm our position that Briefing
Pack workshops,
studies, sketches and any relevant documentations does not form part of our Subcontract agreement.
This process is
established with the following intent described in every Briefing Pack earlier instructions however the
wording has
been allegedly modified out of our control, knowledge and consent that we strongly disagree due to
reasons raised
earlier through our letter dated 17th Mar 2016 however have never been properly responded so far.
"The intent of the Briefing Pack is to alert us and you intended changes to the Works, which will be
workshopped in
collaboration with the Employer, Engineer, us and effected subcontractors with the intent of
accelerating the
remaining design and engineering coordination of the Works. This process should result in fully
coordinated IFC
Drawings being issued by the Employer's Design Consultant thereby reducing the need for an extensive
RFI process"
We have duly attended to such Workshops with immediate effect pursuant to Subcontract Clause
11.3.1. and 20.3
with our upmost contribution for the success of this process.
However we have never received a fully coordinated IFC Drawings issued by the Employer's Design
Consultant since
the date this practice started. Instead, we have received changes in the wording of such Briefing Pack
instructions
waiving all their liabilities in relation to issuance of fully coordinated IFC Drawings but instructing us to
carry out works
in the absence of fully coordinated IFC drawings with sketches issued in stages. Such instructions with
sketches does
not form part of our Subcontract agreement. We are unable to give immediate effect to such
instructions as further

coordination is required with all disciplines ensuring that all changes in relation with Briefing Pack is
captured and
closed. None of the Briefing Pack's "Closure" have been achieved so far. The "Closure" of Briefing Packs
would only be
achieved by a fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by the Design Consultant who has complete
ownership of the
Design. Accordingly we do not accept your allegations with statement that we are in a breach of
contract and totally object to such Contract administration changes unilaterally enforced with an
attempt to misuse Subcontract Clause
11.3.1.
Design responsibility is not within the Subcontractor scope of work; and such design responsibility could
not be
instructed as a Variation as per the terms of our Subcontract. Thus any claim on the contrary is against
the terms and
conditions of our Subcontract. It should be noted that ANEL shall implement any Variation which is
falling within the
definition of Variation under our Subcontract and is instructed by the Contractor as per Clause 11.3. For
that reason
ANEL, as an experienced subcontractor strictly complying with the terms our Subcontract, does not
accept any claim
regarding a breach of our Subcontract relating to Contractor's Instructions.
Briefing Pack Instructions became an uncontrolled process that none of the Party could guess the impact
of those
Briefing Packs and the impact to its interfaces instead those impacts would have been well studied and
workshopped
along with the technical discussions ensuring all stakeholders being aware of such changes and its
consequences that
eventually would eliminate unnecessary discussions both Commercially and Contractually as those
changes give rise
to adjustment to the Subcontract price and extension the Subcontract time for Completion.
Notwithstanding the above, we hereby confirm that we have never refused an instruction and suspend
any works in
relation to such instruction and we have carried out all instructions in due diligence although the
necessary
Specification, Drawings Instruction consent or approval is not issued to the Subcontractor pursuant to
Subcontract
Clause 9.10.3 within a reasonable time taking into account the Subcontract Programme, the Contractor's
Programme
and the progress of the Subcontract Works and pursuant to Subcontract Clause 9.10.4 hereby notify you
that
Subcontractor suffers delay and/or incurs Cost as a result of a failure of the Contractor to issue the
notified
Specification, Drawing or instruction by the time and shall be entitled to extension of Subcontract Time
for Completion
and Adjustment to the Subcontract price in accordance with Subcontract Clauses 16.5 and 21.2
For the sake of argument, our letter dated 1st May 2016 has been responded by the Contractor 4
months back

however the concerns have not been properly addressed therefore remains open. Our following
concerns are hereby
repeated for your reference.
1. A proper contractual mechanism is required to define each and every aspects in respect to design
responsibility and signed by duly authorized representative of each party to be effective. Subcontract
Clause
9.20.1 applies. It is also defined under Subcontract Clause 24.3 "Contractor's Risk" and Clause 24.4
"Consequences of Contractor's Risks" applies.
"9.20.1. Any amendments to the terms and conditions of the Subcontract shall only be effective if in
writing
and signed by a duly authorized representative of each Party. Any amendments to the scope of the
Subcontract Works shall be subject to the provisions of clause 20 (Variations and Adjustments)"
Contractor responded advising ANEL to raise any non-conformance. It is being carried out during the
Workshops however it does not address our above concern.
2. Design Coordination and Shop drawing Coordination are different stages. Responsibility of each is
under
different entity. We would not accept Design Coordination responsibility while having BIM coordination
and
shop drawings. We concur with your statement that the Design Consultant to take complete ownership
of the
design however no any single fully coordinated IFC have been issued so far which in turn is alarming. We
would definitely in need of "Closure" of Briefing Packs in order to obviate any ambiguities that might
arise in
a later stage. The "Closure" of Briefing Pack would only be obtained by a fully coordinated IFC drawing
issued
by the Design Consultant.
Contractor's response never happened as we have submitted lots of Shop Drawings however Design
Consultant have never issued any IFC Drawing with their title block to take complete ownership of the
Design.
Therefore we understand "Closure" of Briefing Pack has never been achieved. We do not accept signed
off sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as
part of instruction for the implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official
documentation for a variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained
in our
letter dated 1st May 2015. In respect to the timing of the issuance of the IFC drawings we are only
aware of
Design Consultant's intention to reduce the need for an extensive RFI process by the Briefing Pack
workshops.
Therefore we do not agree with your statement " ... wait for and IFC drawing from consultant ...... the
relevance
behind such works would become irrelevant I questionable ... " It contradicts to the intention of the
Briefing
Pack workshops whereby originally stated.
Contractor stated that ".The issue of signed off sketches by the Engineer has already been discussed
previously ... " However we have not received any feedback so far. Please refer to our statement in the
4th
paragraph of this letter.

4. It is imperative to note that Briefing Packs are all received after 5th of Mar 2015 being the cut-off of
the events
for the extension of time. Therefore none of the post assigned either full time or part time for Briefing
Packs
are under our Extension of Time Submission. Therefore there is no duplication on the recovery of those
costs.
On the other hand we have been receiving time sheets recently with some of our designations crossed
being
not approved. We would expect an explanation since all the designations effectively worked in relation
with
Briefing Packs. Some of those timesheets are attached for your reference.
-Contractor's statement " ... We would also reiterate that prelims are time related and at the time of
writing
we are still within the original contract period." However at that time of writing we might have been
within
the original contract period but with increased number of resources due to such additional works with
additional cost incurred and at this time of writing we are out of original contract period and we strongly
in
demand for full preliminaries payment either incurred earlier or being due. Please also refer to our letter
Ref.
No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3761 dated 25th Sep 2016
- Additional resources assigned for Briefing Packs in relation to Planning and Commercial have never
been
approved and paid so far.
5. Should you require the shop drawings to be prepared before fully coordinated IFC drawing issued by
the
Design Consultant we would request to include the staff allocated for the revision of those shop
drawings due
to Briefing Packs in the same time sheets of each relevant workshop since again signed off sketches I
drawings
issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings does not constitute an official documentation for
a
variation due to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Further
confirmation of Contractor is required.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
6. We have sent a valuation in respect to Briefing Pack No. 09 to verify if the changes are captured
through the
shop drawings in the absence of IFC drawings are acceptable to the Employer I Employer representative
however we have not received any feedback so far.
Contractor informed that they await determination by the Employer however we have not received
anything
yet although all cost in relation to it is incurred and overdue
7. Shop drawing approvals are the basis of any Procurement activity. Once again we do not accept
signed off
sketches I drawings issued on stages of Briefing Pack Workshop I Meetings as part of instruction for the

implementation of that Briefing Pack since it does not constitute an official documentation for a
variation due
to definition of variation under Subcontract Agreement as explained above. Therefore we do not accept
any
delay in any procurement activity unless the proper mechanism is attained. The Procurement activities
are carried out upon completion of shop drawings. Sketches would not be
appropriate tool to generate necessary take-off for such procurements. Therefore such time to prepare
shop
drawings needs to be allowed for Briefing Pack procurement activities.
8. We would be expecting urgent confirmation to our solution stated in item no. 5 above. Accordingly it
would
be easier to follow up by the Contractor if it constitutes a cost saving.
Contractor informed that our concern will be issued to the Employer however we have not received
Employers
determination yet
9. Please refer to our response in item no. 6 and no. 7 above.
We have not yet received any reply to any of our Briefing Pack variation submission to verify our
valuation
submission on the basis of shop drawings in the absence of IFC Drawings.
10. The extend of the impact of the Briefing Packs are considerably massive. The way of substantiation
of those
impacts might be totally isolation of the works in relation with the Briefing Packs. This would be
obtained by
way of holding all the works in such areas that the Briefing Pack workshops are being carried out and
resuming
the activities by the approval of relevant shop drawings. An immediate confirmation of Contractor is
required
as we have been suffering a loss due to disruption caused by changes totally beyond our control and
knowledge, and put in a position to struggle to substantiate that. We would also refer to our letters ref.
no.
MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2773 dated 17th Feb 2016, MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-2870 dated 7th Mar 2016 and MTBANEL-TCAL2993 dated 3rd Apr 2016 for the Briefing Pack effects on Ceiling and Slab Works.
Ou r above proposal have not been taken into account resulting in unavoidable disruption to our works
causing
additional cost that we have submitted for compensation with all our substantiation however not yet
responded.
11. Contractor confirmation is required as stated above in item no. 10.
We have not received any confirmation in relation to segregation of Time and Cost elements in the
determination process of our variations. Therefore we have been advised by %60 of the cost what is
incurred
although all the backup documents, substantiations, take-off as such are available for Engineer's review
and
determinations.
12. Briefing Packs do not fall under this definition of Variation as explained above therefore a method of
valuation
and payment is urgently required.

We have not yet experienced the same practice with Contractor's statement of " ... Briefing Packs are
changes
to your scope of works and shall therefore be valued in strict accordance with the Sub-Contract
Clauses/Conditions ... " Therefore our concern is still valid.
13. A confirmation of Employer I Employer representative is required due to huge amount of cost
involvement
on those changes.
We do not have any intention to intervene to any parties' internal procedures however we have
concerns that
Change Management Practices are important for both determination of the valuation and payment of
the
same as special mechanisms are required such as sufficient budgeting as no reputable Companies would
allow
payment unless it is sufficiently Budgeted and such Budgets are allowed. In respect to the extent of
changes introduced through Briefing Packs, there are 86 no's of Briefing Packs received
after the first Time Extension change cut-off of 5th March 2015, 55 no's of them are having direct cost
and time impact
on our Scope of Electrical Works. They have significantly disrupted the Project Progress with continuing
effect and
jeopardized the milestones and project completion dates within our approved Programme of Electrical
Works Rev.4
prepared in accordance with Contractor Programme of Overall Works Rev. 6.2. Whilst the balance of 31
no's of Briefing
Packs are having cost and time impact to the scope of others that we do not have any knowledge how
the Programme
of Overall Works have been effected. We have prepared a time impact analysis due to such changes
beyond 5th of
Mar 2015 and demonstrated a second time extension in effect with all costs incurred till End of July
2016 and sent
through our letter with Ref. No. MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-3654 dated 27 August 2016. This letter remains not
responded. We
have been waiting for a Programme of the Overall Works from the Contractor taking into account all the
changes
introduced beyond 5th Mar 2015 with its impact to each and every Programme of Subcontractor Works
demonstrating
further impact to our works due to others. The list of Briefing Pack is attached for your reference. This
list includes 14
no's of the Briefing Packs instructed to be kept "on Hold" until further notice through attached letter
Ref. No.
MTB/TCA/ANEL/L/003013 dated 8th Jun 2016. On the other hand we believe that those Briefing Packs
on hold will
definitely be introduced as a change in a later stage and will have serious impact on the project
completion.
In conclusion, we have been volunteered a Briefing Pack workshop process, ended up with so many
changes never
ceased, instructed through non-contractual ways, unable to administer technically, commercially and
contractually,

impacted Project Milestones and Time for Completion, caused serious disruption with additional cost
however our
attempt with substantiation of the time and cost impacts have yet to be entertained and seems refused
although we
have implemented all of those changes in due diligence. We hereby would also hold you fully culpable
for all
consequences arising out of such non contractual involvement decided on Contractors own discretion
with agreement
of the Employer out of our control and knowledge.
Therefore we do not accept any liability for any delays in the implementation of Briefing Packs due to
above reasons
and reserve our rights pursuant to 16.5 (Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion), 21.2
(Adjustment to the
Subcontract Price, 27.1 (Subcontractor's Claim).
Yours faithfully,
