Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 258 [post-SAA8]
Settlement Observed to Landside Roads – Failure to Issue Engineer’s Instruction
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letter ref: (1) associated with the settlement occurring to the Landside area following
the rainfall event in January 2020, rejecting the open response NCR-01492 [which insisted that we
undertake exploratory boreholes] and requesting an Engineer’s Instruction in confirmation of your
requirements, on the basis we are not responsible for the settlement nor are we responsible for
providing a design solution.
We note that you failed to reply to our letter. You have however, since issued a further two letters ref:
(2) and (3), in which you have referred to another entirely separate NCR associated with the Landside
Backfill Material (it is not related to the current settlement issue), and in the case of the latter, letter ref:
(3), served as a ‘Notice to Correct’ owing to what you opine is our failure to close out both NCRs and
proceed with [as yet undefined’] ‘rectification measures’ which you continue to wrongly allege is our
responsibility.
Since letter ref: (1) was issued, we have exchanged further emails between us restating our respective
positions (ref: 4). By way of example, our e-mail dated 6 April 2020 [14:11 PM] was issued to “remind
you that we are awaiting your instruction and way forward regarding the settlement observed at
landside,” while our e-mail issued at 15:39 PM requested you to “expedite a clear instruction on the way
forwards.” However, you continue to prevaricate, evidenced from your e-mails issued in the interim.
For example, in your e-mail dated 8 April 2020 [10:57 AM] you maintain the “NCR is valid and it remains
the Contractor’s obligation to remedy their defective works in order to bring the works into compliance
with the Contract.”
This is not solving the issue. For the reasons set out in our letter ref: (1) and asserted since, the
settlement that has occurred to the Landside Area is not due to any perceived fault on our part. We

have also made it patently clear that we are not the designers for the Project, the Employer’s Design
Consultant is. Hence it is up to you to coordinate with them and obtain a satisfactory design solution to
address the settlement. Accordingly, we urge you to obtain a solution and issue this to us under cover of
an Engineer’s Instruction.
In the meantime, the continued on-going failure to provide us with a clear instruction on the way
forwards, despite our repeated requests, constitutes acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract on
the part of the Employer / Employer’s Personnel and / or Consultants, and accordingly we hereby give
you notice, pursuant to Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 of the Conditions of Contract, of our right to
claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.1 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
