Subject:Ali Wali Manpower Attendance on the DEWA Project
Dear Sir,
As per our records, we have observed that the number of workers provided by you on the SWRO Plant
Project in Jebel Ali, is not kept constant but it fluctuates significantly on a daily basis.
Our site supervision has informed us that you have committed to allocate 25 workers per shift (of which
15 should be steel fixers), and to keep a constant number of workers for each trade. However, this has
not been achieved yet and the number of workers provided continues to fluctuate.
As discussed in previous correspondences i.e. ref: (1) above, we note that your actions are disrupting
and delaying the works, resulting in loss of productivity.
Therefore, we once again reiterate that you are required to increase your manpower to 25 workers per
shift to meet the requirements of the project and keep the same number of workers constant
throughout the project, until further notice.
In all cases of absences or any kind of changes in the manpower provided by you, you must inform us at
least two (2) days in advance. You are therefore instructed to comply with the aforementioned
requirement and in case of failure to comply, then you shall be held fully responsible for the disruption
and delays to the works and applicable penalties might be imposed upon you accordingly.

In addition, it has come to our attention that access to the Project of unauthorized workers, might have
been provided by your company. Specifically, it has been reported from our site supervision staff, that
workers have been entering the site without having the necessary gate passes from DEWA. This might
have been established by workers using gate passes of other workers. We note that we are investigating
these incidences. In the event this proves to be truthful and indeed unauthorized workers have entered
the site, then you will be held fully responsible and necessary actions will be taken against you.
Please ensure that appropriated steps are being taken on your part, in order to avoid the reoccurrence
of such events in the future.
Yours faithfully,
