STORMS 10 – 13 JANUARY 2020: SUMMARY OF CAUSE & IMPACT OF FLOODING

The storm:
During the night of 10/11 January and during the following 36 hours the region suffered high winds and
intense bursts of rain. The rainfall has been recorded in social media as having been at record levels –
data is being checked from Government metrological sources in support of this.
More storms are expected during the evening and night of 14/15 January 2020.
Water entered the building at LB 01 & 02 levels and rose to heights of up to 500mm above finished floor
levels.
Not only did surface water enter under door openings but more importantly, due to surcharges on the
storm-water network, pipework inside the building that had been capped was placed under so much
pressure that solvent-welded joints failed and caps were blown off. (see below for more detail).There is
video evidence of various joints and open-ended pipes running at full bore under pressure, inundating
the building with many cases of water cascading down through electrical switchgear and ELV racks.
Site took immediate action to isolate and power down electrical items as well as forming dams where
possible to stop water progressing throughout the building.
However, without power it was not possible to run sump pumps or to bring in temporary electrical
pumps from the external works. Some diesel pumps and ducted fans providing some air were installed
but the pumps’ use had to be limited due to levels of dangerous fumes and particulates within the
enclosed buildings.
The impact on site:
Through pumping and manual mopping water levels have been reduced to isolated ponds within plant
rooms, escalator/travellator and lift pits. Mud and other detritus is being removed.
Air movers, heaters and dehumidifiers are being sourced so that the building can be dried out before
any assessment is made on the extent of the damage.
With power and ELV systems unavailable parts of the testing and commissioning/cause and effect
procedures will be delayed. In addition there is extensive damage to soft-cored fire and security doors
and screens that may have to be replaced. Similarly there will be damage to electrical and ELV controls
systems, parts of which may have to be replaced.
Consideration will need to be given to the programme impact of long lead procurement periods of many
of the items that may need to be replaced.
Why so much water?
The storm water system over the whole airport development is currently connected to an evaporation
pond located to the West of the development. This pond is clearly too small to accept the volumes of
water gathered over the area of the development and as it filled and overflowed, surface water had
nowhere to go and started to collect in low points.
The sewer system for the MTB project relies upon two lifting stations, one at each end of Piers 1 & 4
(landside area). There is also a grease interceptor located at adjacent Pier 1 to the North landside. These
three elements comprise rooms with a significant cross sectional area and are up to eight metres deep
below ground level: at the time of the incident these ‘rooms’ had no permanent lid/roof. Surface water
was therefore able to enter these voids and whilst they have small sump pumps within them, these
were not designed to handle large volumes of water. As a result the approximately 250mm diameter
sewer pipes at the end of the MTB runs were subjected to water at an eight metre pressure head: water
entered the building at this pressure, blew end caps and caused joints to fail leading to a number of
direct sources of pressurised surface water into the building at LB02 and 01 levels.
Contractual action:
CAR and Contractor’s plant and equipment insurers have been notified and a meeting was held of site
on 13 January with the Employer’s CAR policy loss adjuster Cunningham Lyndsey. A meeting was held
with all impacted subcontractors on 13 January to ensure all are aligned in terms of the next action and

a central reporting line through the JV. Records are being collated on a common drive on the project
server.
A letter has been drafted to record the event and to position the JV with claims for extension of time
and costs.
Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0192
Severe Rainstorm from 10 to 12 January 2020 – Flooding and Damage to Main Terminal
Building – Basement Levels LB2 and LB1
Dear Sir
As you are aware, the UAE, and specifically the Abu Dhabi Midfield Airport Terminal Building suffered
exceptionally inclement weather between 10 and 12 January 2020, to such extent that the conditions
prevailing on Site at the time caused extensive flooding and resultant damage in Levels LB2 and LB1.
The entire Main Terminal Building’s storm water network connects to the Evaporation Pond [system was
designed and constructed by Others] located to the West of the MTB development through a system of
water lines. There are two inlets but notably no outlets and therefore no means by which excessive
water can be discharged from the Pond in the event of an emergency. It was because of inherent design
problems with both the Pond and storm water network [the Pond is too small to accept the volumes of
water gathered over the area of the development] that caused the Pond to become completely filled
during the rainstorms. This in turn caused: the Pond to overflow and flood the immediate landside
areas. This also caused the ‘backing up’ of storm water through the water lines; and the two lifting
stations and grease interceptor pit [inherent aspects of the sewer network] to flood also. This then
caused the pipes to be under pressure (no gravity system) causing the water to be discharged back into
the MTB causing extensive flooding of Basement Levels LB2 and LB1.
The flooding of the Basement has caused significant damage to amongst other things, Lift, Elevator and
Travellator (LET) equipment and associated works. Accordingly, while we are still in the process of
assessing all of the damage caused, we enclose a preliminary report on the impact caused by the
resultant flooding on the ‘LB1 and LB2 LET equipment, 10 – 12 January 2020’, for your information.
This evidences significant damage caused to amongst other things: elevator pits; equipment rooms;
motors; drives; elevator cabins; electrical equipment and related works; plus wall/floor finishes. This
will result in critical delay [and additional cost] associated with procuring and installing replacement
equipment, testing and commissioning the same, not to mention the extra time and costs associated
with pumping out and then subsequently drying, cleaning up and making good the affected areas.
To conclude therefore, it is our contention that the various events and circumstances outlined above
constitutes acts of prevention and/or breach of Contract on the part of the Employer and / or the
Employer’s Personnel and / or the Consultants, and accordingly we hereby give you notice, pursuant to
Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, of our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.1 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
