Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0217
to the Testing & Commissioning of Lighting Control System due to Non-Completion of Works by
the Employer’s Other Contractor (Cloisall)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The failures of the Employer’s Other Contractor (Cloisall) to complete its works located at the Tenant
areas to CP Level 2.0 (i.e. Family Hub, Downtown, Watches & Jewellery, Luxury Fashion), is delaying and
preventing us from completing the Testing & Commissioning of the Lighting Control System.
Potential Impact
Acts of prevention on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Background
We remain appreciably concerned that numerous delays have been and continue to be encountered,
associated with the completion of the Testing and Commissioning (T&C) of the Lighting Control System
(LCS) due to the non-completion of works which have been and continue to be carried out by the
Employer’s Fit-out Contractor (M/s Cloisall) at the Tenant’s areas North and South to CP Level 2.0.
In particular, we are being prevented from completing the T&C of the LCS which is established via the
control panels (Figure 1 refers). The control panels are installed by us; they are then used to control the
colour adjustments of the lights which are installed by Cloisall. After the installation of the control
panels and the LCS by us, Cloisall then commences the installation of lights at the Employer’s Tenant
areas to CP Level 2.0 (i.e. Family Hub, Downtown, Watches & Jewellery, and Luxury Fashion).
Figure 1

The purpose of this notice therefore is to provide a detailed chronology of the ‘event’ and elaborate on
the various acts of prevention on the part of others that continue to impede us. This is provided for your
information and further action as applicable. Accordingly, we herewith provide the following
explanation of some of the terminology utilised herein relating to various stages of construction and
commissioning etc., so as to provide the reader with an appreciation of what each stage represents and
the delineation of responsibilities between us and the Employer’s Other Contractor(s):
•
‘Construction Stage’ - consist of the installation of LCS (i.e. control panels, power panels etc.).
This is completed by us, while the installation of the light fixtures and containment of the full system is
completed by Cloisall (i.e. table trays, conduits, flexible conduits etc.)
•
‘Pre-commissioning Stage’ – consists of cable pulling and cable termination.
•
‘Energisation Stage’ – consists of the issuance of Lock-Out Tag-Out (LOTO) permits and then
energisation of the system.
•
‘Software Upload Stage’ – consist of the installation of Local Area Networks (LAN) cards, LANcard termination check, field testing, software upload (undertaken by our specialist contractor M/s
Delmatic ) for the control of the lights’ colours / dimming / on-off functions etc.
•
‘Commissioning Stage’ – consist of the T&C and Commissioning Inspection Requests (CIR)
carried out and inspected by CXA (the Employer’s Commissioning Consultant).
Chronology of Event
We refer to numerous emails including but not limited to your email dated 26 December 2019 [10:42
AM] copy attached at Annex B hereto, in which you informed the Employer’s Fit-out Contractor about
the interfaces required between us (TCAJV, Cloisall, other Subcontractors etc.) for the T&C of the LCS,
and requesting Cloisall to coordinate with us and confirming the following (Figure 2 refers):
Figure 2
Essentially, within your abovementioned email, you requested Cloisall to provide the status of their
works and to confirm whether the works in relation to the lights installed by them and the circuit
terminations (indicated in Figure 1 above) at the Tenant areas, have been completed. In this regard, the
completion of the circuit / cables’ terminations inside the control panels as shown in Figure 1, is a
prerequisite for the circuit energisation and T&C of the LCS to commence.
Subsequent to this email, a meeting was held on 29 December 2019, between all parties involved in the
process (i.e. TCAJV, ANEL, AECOM, Cloisall, Polygulf etc.), to discuss inter alia the pending works by
Cloisall, including the outstanding circuit/cables terminations, cable labelling/address. During the
meeting, the scheduled completion dates [which would allow the energisation and further T&C activities
to commence] were provided and agreed. During the meeting it was concluded that:
1.
Energisation of all circuits, including the circuits located at the Tenant’s areas, is required to be
able to test the lights’ control channels. However, in order to proceed with the circuit energisation, it is
an essential prerequisite for Cloisall to apply and obtain a LOTO permit from our Health and Safety Team
(HS), for the respective Tenant areas (i.e. Arcades, Pavilions etc.). Additionally, it was agreed that upon
approval and issuance of the LOTO permit, Cloisall must request and fill in the energisation request form
accordingly.
2.
Once the LOTO approval form is approved and received, we would then proceed with the
energisation of the circuits accordingly. The completion/action date for the energisation was agreed to
commence on 30 December 2019. However, all Cloisall works in regards to cable pulling, circuit
termination, issuance of approved documentation etc. for each respective area must be completed prior
to energisation;
3.
It was also agreed, that Cloisall terminates the lights’ cables to each respective local control
panel. Also, it was agreed that Cloisall must confirm with the supplier if the lighting control cables are
suitable to be connected to the control panels installed on site;

4.
Cloisall confirmed that the Tenant’s works at the Luxury fashion area and specifically the type of
lights L28 and L30 are not completed as per their Contractual obligation with the Employer.
Consequently, it was agreed that Light Control (LC) loop ( channel ) would be excluded during the
energization;
5.
It was agreed that T&C of light control cables would be interfaced and jointly completed,
between TCAJV/ Anel and Cloisall during energization. Also, during energization, both teams would start
testing the LC cable continuity.
6.
It was also noted that some cables had been pulled by us due to the fact that Cloisall failed to
install them as per the schedule of completion. Consequently, since the installation of these cables had
been delayed we took action and pulled / installed them, on Cloisall’s behalf.
Finally, it was agreed that all of the above activities had to be completed by 12 January 2020.
We further record that the various activities introduced above were set out and summarised in your
follow up email dated 29 December 2019 [4:24 PM] in the manner reproduced in Figure 3 below.
Figure 3
Subsequent to the meeting, we have been closely following up the status of Cloisall’s works based on
the completion dates and stages mentioned above. It is for this reason that we sent you an email on 8
January 2020 [8:15 AM], wherein we conveyed the expected completion date of the same in the manner
shown in Figure 4. The date of 12 January 2020 included in our email, is the date when the LCS and all
associated works (including, construction, pre-commissioning, energisation, software upload etc.) must
be completed and be ready in order to proceed for T&C and inspections by CXA.
Figure 4
In our email to you dated 8 January 2020, we expressed concern regarding the delays incurred to the
completion of our works (energisation, software upload and T&C etc.) due to Cloisall’s failure to
complete the light installations and cable pulling/address. Essentially, we informed you that Cloisall had
failed to complete the cable pulling to the two control panels referenced in Figure 4 (i.e. ref:
LCP.L20.5.14C.004 and ref: ELCP.L20.5.14C.003). We also pointed out the fact that Delmatic’s work in
regards to uploading the software for the lights’ controls would also be delayed, since the uploading can
take up to four (4) working days to be completed. Therefore, our email was sent to you / Cloisall on 8
January 2020, which is five (5) days prior to the agreed completion date of the works before T&C
commences which is 12 January 2020. Our email was sent to inform you that any further delays on the
part of Cloisall will not be tolerated. Consequently, the LOTO permit, energisation and T&C could not
proceed on 12 January 2020, due to the cables pending to be pulled and terminated by Cloisall.
Evidently, unless and until Cloisall completes the lighting installations and obtains a LOTO permit for the
energisation of the works at the abovementioned Tenant’s areas, then we are prevented from
proceeding with the energisation and the commencement of T&C of LCS and all associated works. It is
for this reason that we have sent numerous emails to you to date, reminding you about Cloisall’s
outstanding works. Copies of all relevant emails are included for reference at Annex B hereto.
It is evident therefore, that Cloisall failed to complete the pre-commissioning works in accordance with
the agreed completion schedule and failed to submit all relevant documentation (shopdrawings, single
line diagram, Light Channel Module Details etc.) to you for approval. As a result, it was inevitable that
the target completion dates for all remaining works (Pre-commissioning, Energisation, Software upload,
and T&C) would not be achieved. This is directly attributable to Cloisall’s failures.
Cloisall responded to our email on 9 January 2020 [5:20 PM], informing us that they will be able to
commence energisation on 11 January 2020 since the LOTO permit has been issued. However, the target
completion date of 12 January 2020, as mentioned above, would nonetheless not be achieved.

On 9 January 2020 [5:27 PM], you e-mailed us asking us to “start LCS, Pre-[Commissioning] to check the
circuits” and “provide a plan to have cloisall do the test [energisation] accordingly with TCAJV”.
We responded to your email on 11 January 2020 [9:24 AM], notifying you that we “…cannot start LCS,
Pre-T&C…” due to the fact that Cloisall has not removed the locks from the power panels in the four (4)
respective areas (i.e. Family Hub, Downtown, Watches & Jewellery, Luxury Fashion), as they were
required to do so. With the power panels locked, we were unable to obtain access to commence with
energisation. Moreover, we informed you that our Subcontractor, Delmatic, has to upload the software
for all four (4) areas and there is not enough time to do so, since the uploading process can take up to 4
days. In addition we reminded you that an agreed “… plan is already…” in place as per our recent
discussions for the works to be completed on 12 December 2020. Lastly, we informed you that this date
of 12 January 2020, has already failed to be met. Therefore, we requested Cloisall to remove the locks
“… without any more delay…”, so we can proceed with the works accordingly.
Further e-mails continued to be exchanged between the parties in regard to the coordination and
interfacing works (refer to Annex B). By way of example, on13 January 2020 [5:59 PM], we further
advised you that Cloisall was yet to complete their works since the cables had not been terminated to
the LAN-cards inside the control/power panels. As a result, energisation, LCM details, software upload
and the commissioning aspects were still pending for completion. We also advised that the revised
estimated completion date for all the above-mentioned works would be 7 February 2020.
We reiterate that due to Cloisall’s failure to complete their works, all associated activities in relation to
Construction, Pre-commissioning, Energisation, Software upload, have been delayed. These should have
been completed on 12 January 2020, so that the T&C processes for the LCS can commence.
However, as noted in Annex B, the email exchanges continued between the parties subsequent to the
agreed completion dates. Evidently, as seen in our email on 9 February 2020 [8:02 AM], Cloisall had not
completed the documentation submittals and approvals which are required to proceed with the T&C.
This can be seen in our said email, where we essentially confirmed that despite the fact that precommissioning and energisation of all works have been completed and are ready for T&C, there exist
numerous snags and documentation that still need to be submitted by Cloisall. This was discovered
during our attempt to commence with T&C, when it was found that there are many errors / snags with
their works and numerous Cloisall’s documentation had not been approved, and also their provided
data was found to be incorrect (mismatching data, wrong data, unknown data etc.), which are required
to be approved by you (kindly refer to the snag list appended at Annex C hereto).
Further, M/s Delmatic have been attempting to finalize the software uploading for the lights’
functionalities (i.e. colours, dimming, on/off functions etc.), but due to Cloisall’s unresolved snags, errors
and the pending documentation, the software uploading has been unable to be completed.
In order to resolve matters, we respectfully suggest that you ensure that Cloisall’s Works are fully
completed prior to us and CXA commencing with CIR inspections; otherwise, the works associated with
the LCS will not be approved by CXA.
At the date of preparing this E-Notice, we have been and continue to be prevented from completing the
T&C of the LCS at Tenant areas to CP Level 2.0 (i.e. Family Hub, Downtown, Watches & Jewellery, Luxury
Fashion) due to the Cloisall’s failures discussed above. As a result, unless and until the abovementioned
matters are resolved, then we are unable to proceed with completing our works.
These acts of prevention were entirely avoidable but have both delayed and disrupted our progress. In
view of this, then we maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event described in letter ref: (2).
If such acts of prevention continue, then this will continue to impact upon Testing and Commissioning
which will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this
has the potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).

Yours faithfully,
