Subject: Contractor Claim: Compensation for the Employer's breach of Contract Specification
Section 013115)
Dear Sir,
The Contractor responds to Engineer's letter ref (1) and (2) as follows:
The Engineer has fundamentally misinterpreted and mischaracterised the Contractor's claim.
First, the Engineer in letter (2) states that "The RFVO provides no clear contractual reference to the
claimed entitlement and is consequently rejected by the Engineer." We understand this to mean that
the
Engineer believes that the Contractor has not stated a contractual breach. This statement is entirely
incorrect and rejected by the Contractor. The Contractor has stated in letter (3) that it relies upon
Paragraph 1.5 C of Specification Section no 013155 [Coordination with Tenant Areas] for its claim of
breach of Contract, with Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013155 clearly quoted in Contractor
letter reference (3). This reflects the Engineer's lack of attention to the Contractor's claim.
The Engineer has stated in letter (1) that "Paragraph 1.5C of Specification Section 013115 does not place
any obligation on the Employer to ensure that Tenant Contractors employ for their fit out works the
Contractor's Subcontractor". This is a clear misinterpretation, by the Engineer, of Paragraph 1.5C of
Specification Section 013115. As the Contractor's letter reference (3) makes clear, Specification Section
013115 Paragraph 1.5C obligates the Tenant Contractors to use the "Contractor's major
subcontractors."
For ease of reference, Article 1.5(C) is reproduced below:
"To keep continuity within the MTB Construction Phase, the Tenant Contractors
shall use the Contractor's major subcontractors including but not limited to; all
Systems (IT, PA, Security and etc.}, Electrical, Plumbing, HVAC, and Waterproofing
as based on unit rates (rom the BOQ. These various subcontractors shall be directly
contracted to the respective Tenant Contractors" (emphasis added).
The word "shall" connotes a mandatory condition. Instead of doing what was promised to the
Contractor
(and its Subcontractors), the Tenant Contractors went around Anel, a major MEP Subcontractor, and
employed a different contractor. By signing the Contract, the Employer undertook the legal obligation
for
the Tenant Contractors to use Anel. The failure of the Tenant Contractors to use Anel thus constitutes
the
Employer's breach of the Contract entitling the Subcontractor to damages. Furthermore, if there was no

obligation placed on the Tenant Contractors to use the Contractor's major Subcontractor, then there
would have been no need for Specification Section No 013115 to refer to how these additional works
would be valued (i.e. based on unit rates from the BOQ).
Next, the Engineer asserts in letter (1) that '7he electrical works that the Contractor alleged to have
been
omitted from the Contract are not part of the Works under the Contract. Therefore, there cannot be any
omission and loss of profit and overheads." As noted above, this is not an "omission" of works, but
rather
a breach of an express obligation to employ the major Subcontractors. Under UAE Law, a party claiming
for breach of contract is entitled to all damages naturally flowing from the breach.1 In this case, had the
Tenant Contractors properly employed Anel, Anel would have been paid the BOQ rates for the works
done. Its profit would have been the price paid by the Tenant Contractors minus its costs for doing the
work. The Contractor in letter reference (3) has provided detailed calculations of the amount claimed as
damages.
Based upon the above, the Contractor request that the Engineer considers its claim properly, employing
the impartialit/ required by the Contract. We also trust that steps will be taken to avoid further breaches
of this provision.
Yours faithfully,
