Subject: Engineer's Notification of a Notice to Correct- Shortage of Manpower
Dear Sir,
We write with referen~e to your letters ref: (1) and ref: (2).
With regards to your letter (1), we are responding to the concerns you have with respect to the
recent reductions in the manpower numbers at site.
The planned resource levels submitted by us are a best assessment at the time of programming and
there will be natural fluctuations due to sickness, rest days and the daily changing demands of the
programme. We are working to the accepted Completion Programme and we are on target to
complete as agreed.
With regards to your letter (2), we confirm that there is a domestic issue between PCEJV and
NAFFCO over the valuation of their account, which has resulted in a reduction of manpower at site
on the date of your count.
PC'EJV has assured us tnat positive discussions have taken place ~ith NAFFCO and that 'sufficient
manpower will be deployed to the site to deliver its remaining works within the shortest possible
time.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing
our obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality.
Your faithfully
Subject Notice to Correct (Clause 12.10 Conditions of Contract)- Shortage of Manpower
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Contractor's correspondence (1) and with reference to
correspondence (2) to (7) wherein the Engineer notified the Contractor of his concerns in relation to
the levels of manpower on site and requested that the Contractor corrects the decline in their
resources and in view of the delays being incurred to the Project as a result of the Contractor's own
delays and inactions.
The Contractor's assertion that their manpower levels are associated with their submitted claims is
erroneous. The Contractor is obligated to retain adequate resource levels for the delivery of the
Project. Furthermore, the Contractor's statement that they are progressing in accordance with the
accepted target Programme is also inaccurate. The only accepted Programme is the Rev. 11.2.
We remind the Contractor that they are in delay and have not evidenced any entitlement to any
extension to the Time for Completion.
Despite the above delays to the works, we note with concern that the Contractor has reported
recently a further decline in the levels of their manpower, especially for the major Subcontractors
such as ANEL, PCEJV and AL GHURAIR, whereas the associated works, i.e. the KPis related to WIR ATPs
and CIR are falling behind committed t argets. The Contractor is aware of t he various performance

related issues associated with those specif ic major Subcontractors and the assurances that the
Contractor has given to both t he Employer and Engineer t o ameliorate their performance.
The Contractor is referred to Table 1 which id entifies a decline of the current resources (Direct and
Indirect) for a selection of Subcontractors which is be ing evidenced as of 23 De;;::
We remind the contractor of their responsibility for the acts, omissions or defaults of any and all
Subctroanctors and their agents or employees, as if they were acts, omissions or defaults of the
Contractor (Clause 12.9.6).
We hereby provide notice
Your faithfully
Subject Delay Notification - Failure to Complete Airport Pulse Solution
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) above regarding the Contractor's failure to complete
the Airport Pulse Solution, and note that the Contractor has not provided a response within 5 days
from the date of receipt of our letter (1) and that 3 months have passed without any act ion. The
Contractor is advised to provide the requested information without further delay.
We further record our concerns regarding the Contractor's continued failure to comply with the
Engineer's request to provide a completion schedule to deliver the required functionality for th is
subject, and record the Contractor's failure in meeting all the milestones provided within the
Contractor's Rev 11.2 baseline Programme and advise that the current status of the Airport Pulse
Solution remains as unknown. An NCR (MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01082) was issued on this on 18
February 2019 and has not been addressed yet.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights under Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of Contract for any
damage the Employer may incur as a result of the Contractor's fa ilure to promptly complete
deliverables that are within the Contractor's scope of work.
Yours faithfully
