Subject RE: Notification of Delay: W rapper Mullion Columns for 7W, GAW: Scaffolding
Dear Sir,
Obstruction to the Completion of touch up painting works
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor notifies that the crash
deck installation is obstructing its access to the wrapper mullion columns in 7W and 6AW and therefore
preventing the completion of the 'touch up and painting works'. To be clear:
The Contractor records that the painting works referred by the Subcontractor in its letter (1) should
have
been undertaken (and protected) upon completion of the de-propping activities in June 2016 when the
ceiling crash deck was not even installed; in other words, these works should have been completed by
the
Subcontractor a while ago.
Moreover, the Contractor confirms that it served regular notifications to the Subcontractor thus advising
that numerous open fronts were available to the Subcontractor to progress the AESS painting works of
the
wrapper mullions; however, the Subcontractor neglected the Contractor's directions. These notifications
include, but are not limited to, letter references (2) and (3). The Contractor confirms therefore that any
impediment to accessing these areas being now encountered by the Subcontractor is a consequence of
its
own delays and lack of implemented mitigation measures.

In respect of the Subcontractor's opinion that it is entitled to an extension to the Time for Completion
and
reimbursement of 'additional prolongation costs', the Contractor advises the Subcontractor that in
correspondence (1) it has neither evidenced the impact of the alleged delay to its programme nor has it
stated the implemented mitigation measures for the avoidance of the alleged delay. Should the
Subcontractor intend to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the content of letter (1), the
Subcontractor is reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within twenty-eight (28) from
the date of the events which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirements of Clause
27 .1.5 of the Conditions of Subcontract. Furthermore, the Subcontractor is also obligated to submit a
Time
Impact Analysis in accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within twenty-one (21) days in order to enable the
Contractor to review any entitlement the Subcontractor may have for additional time and/or cost. The
Contractor urges therefore the Subcontractor to comply with the aforementioned contractual
obligations
as this will form part of the basis of the Contractor's assessment of the Subcontractor's claim. Finally,
and for the sake of clarity, the Contractor reiterates that 'Substantial Completion' is a contractual
term meaning that 'the Subcontract Works have reached the state of completeness described in Clause
18
of the Conditions of Subcontract'; this has not yet been achieved by the Subcontractor.
Yours faithfully,
