
Subject: Subcontractor's Application for Extension of Time No. 02- Black Flag Days
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the Subcontractor's application for the reimbursement of costs associated to its
Extension of Time No. 2 made via its letter reference (1), particularly, to the Subcontractor's alleged
right
to claim compensation from the Contractor vis-a-vis the reduced productivity of its workforce during the
summer.
The Subcontractor claims that its ability to comply with its intended programme was impacted by the
unfavourable weather conditions and high temperatures prevalent during the summer months.
Additional
breaks and increased quantity of water for site operatives are cited by the Subcontractor as examples of
how its activity was disrupted and its productivity reduced . The Subcontractor submitted disruption
costs
in an amount of AED 9,015,919.84 for labour that allegedly remained idle during the months of April
2015
to December 2016 and included a cost breakdown under Appendix 5 to its 'Application for the
Reimbursement of Prolongations Associated Costs' narrative.
Firstly, the Contractor notes that the majority of the idle periods claimed by the Subcontractor comprise
interruptions occurred during the 'summer midday ban' imposed by the Ministry of Human Resources
and
Emiratisation. The 'summer midday ban' is a mandatory break for UAE's labourers thus making illegal
working outdoors between 12.30 pm and 3.00 pm from 15 June until15 September. The 'summer
midday
ban' has been in force in the UAE for the last 13 years; hence, the Subcontractor should have considered
these mandatory breaks when preparing its programme and forecasting its productivity during the
summer.
In respect of those interruptions occurred during periods outside the 'summer midday break', the
Contractor confirms that the Project's Health and Safety Plan includes an effective heat stress
programme
which assesses environmental conditions utilizing the Thermal Work Limit (TWL) to determine work/rest
breaks and water consumption requirements for employees. In accordance with Abu Dhabi
Occupational
Safety and Health System Framework, the implementation of such heat stress programme is a
mandatory
requirement at any worksite that has, or is it reasonably foreseeable to have, a temperature at or above
35 degrees Celsius. The Contractor is of the opinion that an Experienced Subcontractor should have
foreseen that the temperatures on Site would exceed 35 degrees Celsius during the summer and
therefore should have predicted (and allowed for) occurrences of interruptions during the hot season in
the UAE. Please be reminded that pursuant to Clause 12.14.4 and Clause 14.7.1 of the Conditions of
Subcontract,
the Subcontractor shall fully comply with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements as may be
reasonably revised from time to time. Moreover, in accordance with the provisions of Clause 14.4.1, it is
the Subcontractor's obligation to comply with 'all labour related Applicable Laws relevant to the
Subcontractor's Personnel, including the Labour Law, Social Security Law and any other Applicable Laws
relating to their employment, health, safety, welfare'.
Notwithstanding the fact that the Site records of stoppages occurred due to hot weather differ from
those

claimed by the Subcontractor, the Contractor confirms that it proceeded fully in compliance with both
the
Subcontract and the Applicable Laws whilst stopping the execution of the works when the high
temperature environment jeopardised the safety of the Personnel working on Site. Should the
Subcontractor be of the opinion that the Contractor's 'flags' were declared whilst it was safe for its
labourers to work, relevant evidence shall be provided thus demonstrating that the TWL was within the
tolerance limits.
Finally, please be informed that the Contractor has undertaken an assessment of the Subcontractor's
claim for reimbursement of additional costs as a result of 'Black Flag Days' and all relevant circumstances
in connection with such event. The Contractor has concluded that the contractual basis of the
Subcontractor's claim is invalid on account of the fact that the Subcontractor's abidance by the Health
and
Safety regulations is both a contractual and legal obligation of the Subcontractor.
Stuart
Yours faithfully,
