
Subject:Re: EOT & Prolongation Costs Assessment

Dear Sir,
Further to your letter referenced (3) above, which is in response to our letter reference (2), we hereby
set out our response accordingly.
The Emden Formula is based upon using ‘actual’ audited accounts from a contractor’s head office. The
head office percentage is calculated by dividing the total overhead cost of a contractor’s organisation as
a whole by the total amount of turnover in the audited accounts. In consideration of this, we only
requested you to present your audited accounts as evidence, because it is unilaterally stated in your
cost submissions that you are relying upon the Emden Formula.
Further, you have stated that our following statement ignores the overhead percentage explicitly set out
in Annexure 1, Schedule 1 of the Subcontract Agreement:
“In the absence of actual cost information, the use of an uplift percentage substantiated by audited
financial accounts may be appropriate.”
We refute your position on this point and confirm that the intention of this statement was to merely
indicate what would be required by way of evidence if you believed you were entitled to head office
overheads over and above the percentage stated in the Subcontract Agreement.
As you have not provided any evidence to the contrary, our preliminary assessment, issued via letter
reference (1), calculates the potential head office overhead costs using the 7% expressed as ‘overheads’
within Annexure 1 of the Subcontract Agreement against the applicable prolongation costs. The
principle behind this percentage uplift is linked to the same approach currently being adopted by the
Engineer and the Employer against our potential head office overhead claims. Notwithstanding this, in
the event this principle is not maintained by the Engineer and the Employer, then we reserve our rights
to reassess your claim for additional head office overheads.
You are reminded that the Subcontract Agreement expressly excludes ‘profit’ for any claim for
additional Costs and subsequent adjustment of the Subcontract Price. For further clarity on this point,
we refer you to the definition of Costs under Clause 1.1 [Definitions] of the Conditions of Subcontract.
For the avoidance of doubt, our additional comments above are without prejudice and as such are to be
used independently to the assessment of the prolongation Cost submission and EOT which will follow
once you have submitted full particulars etc. as described in our aforementioned letters above and the
further letters referenced therein.
Yours faithfully,
