Dear Sir,

The Contractor is in receipt of letter reference 1), which after careful consideration has not provided any
evidence that the Contractor’s position with respect to the Architectural BoH and MEP scope of works
within the Blue Line platform and associated equipment rooms of the Ras Bu Abboud station is in any
way incorrect.

The Engineer’s Assistant’s letter sets out in its first four numbered items its rebuttals to the Contractor’s
points whereby the latter had demonstrated that it had obtained at various times confirmation that the
Blue Line Works did not form part of its Contract. While the Contractor shall respond to these points one
by one, the Contractor must question why, given the Engineer’s Assistant’s insistence that these works
indeed form part of the Contract, the Engineer’s Assistant makes no reference to a Contract Document
to demonstrate this alleged fact; it is clearly the Employer’s obligation to demonstrate that these works
were contained within the Contract it has drafted and it has failed to do so.

Now therefore, in connection with the subject letter, the Contractor responds as follows:

The Contractor does not agree with the Engineer’s Assistant’s statement in Item no.1; in response to the
first sentence, the Contractor notes that the RFI of reference 10) requested “confirmation of Qatar Rail’s
Day 1 Operational and fit-out requirements” in relation to the Ras Bu Abboud station which consists of
the entire fit-out requirement, namely that of architectural Back of House, MEP and Front of House
works. In response to the second sentence, the Contractor hereby rejects the EA’s interpretation as to
the relevance of the said RFI to the subject on the basis of both the Contractor’s interpretation of the
term ‘fit-out’ above and the univocal intent conveyed by the Employer to the Contractor in directing the

Contractor to deliver “the complete fit-out for the whole of the concourse level and Gold Line Platform
Level” thereby clearly excluding Blue Line Platform fit-out works.

The Contractor does not agree with the Engineer’s Assistant’s statement in Item no.2. The Contractor
reiterates its position against item no.1 vis-a-vis the relevance of item 8 of reference 8) to this matter.
Furthermore, the Engineer’s Assistant’s response ignores the unequivocal statement of reference 6)
which clarifies for both Al Sadd (where the scope has been clearly defined from the beginning) and Ras
Bu Abboud, not to fit-out the Blue Line platforms.

The Engineer’s Assistant’s response to Item no.3 is incorrect: the Contractor wrote that it had received
assurance from the Engineer’s Assistant on multiple occasions pursuant to the preceding two
paragraphs, alluding therefore to references 5, 7 and 9. Furthermore, the referenced excerpt is out of
context and clearly misleading: the last paragraph of letter reference 6) states: “Ras Bu Abboud: Fit-out
double concourse throughout and slab over unused VT openings. Design but do not fit out Blue Line
Platforms. All non-fit out situations will need to be cooled, ventilated and lit to basic NFPA escape
criteria for evacuation (minimal occupancy).” Similarly to the Blue Line platform of Al Saad station, and
pursuant to the Contract provisions and the Tender Clarification RTC/040/0856 the Contractor is indeed
required to comply with the basic NFPA escape criteria:

Clarification No. Reference:
Employer’s Response

Tender Query issued by the Contractor: Contract Reference:

RTC/040/0856 Please update the description of Airport City North Station to reflect the new two
platform arrangement and advise whether architectural finishing to the platform serving the Blue Line is
to be provided as part of Design & Build Package 3
Volume 5, Clause 2.2.1.1
The Scope of
Works for Airport City North Station Blue Line Platform will be the same as for Al Sadd C-Ring Station
Blue Line Platform. Please refer to Volume 5, Section 2, Clause 2.2.8

Engineer’s Assistant’s response concerning Item no.4 is singularly disingenuous. The Engineer’s Assistant
has relied upon an, admittedly poor, description contained within the grand summary description of
cost saving initiatives set forth via letter reference 5). The Contractor concedes that the sentence “OTE
Duct for Blue Line Transfer Platform” ought to omit the word ‘Transfer’ for clarity. However, the Blue
Line platform at Ras Bu Abboud is one that a Gold Line passenger might “transfer” to, the word being
used as an adjective, the noun being “Platform”. The Engineer’s Assistant’s reading is contrived and
ignores the fact that the area being referred to is stated to be a “platform” and therefore cannot be a
reference to the transfer “level”.

In summary, the foregoing paragraphs amply demonstrate that the Engineer’s Assistant has not
attempted to provide any valid contractual evidence that the contentious scope is included within the
Contractor’s scope of Works, and has furthermore attempted to interpret the evidence provided by the
Contractor in a tortuous manner which does not stand up to scrutiny.

With respect to the five (5) items in the second part of its letter reference 1), the Contractor
understands these to represent an attempt by the Engineer’s Assistant to demonstrate that the
Contractor was somehow aware of what currently seems to be the Employer’s intent, namely that the
Contractor should proceed with the execution of the said works.

The Contractor shall not provide itemized responses to counter what is plainly incorrect. None of the
items referenced in the second part of this letter can be used to derive such inferences: all documents
referenced by the Engineer’s Assistant are speculative and/or investigative reports based on
assumptions, as clearly stated even within the excerpts quoted, and none are an instruction to execute
the construction works. The party to execute the fit-out works is not identified, nor would a technical
note prepared by the designer be a reasonable indication of who that party might be. The Contractor
reiterates its statement that “it may be the Employer’s intent to instruct these works to the Contractor”
and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary the Contractor does not consider that these works
are included in the Gold Line Package.

In conclusion, and whilst noting that it is currently progressing with part of these works in good faith,
the Contractor nevertheless requires an instruction pursuant to Clause 13 of Volume 3 of the Contract to
continue with these works within seven days of receipt of this letter, failing which these works will be
stopped.

Yours faithfully,
