Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0266
Removal of a Public Address and Voice Evacuation (PAVE) Speaker to Retail Unit 2061 located at CP
Level L2.0 by the Employer’s Fit-Out Contractor (DEPA)
Dear Sirs,

Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The events described in Annex A hereto records delays attributable to the removal of a previously
installed PAVE Speaker within Retail Unit 2061 located at CP L2.0 by the Employer’s Other Contractor
which requires rectification and as such requires the issuance of an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and
Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so. Annex A also describes the fact that despite the speaker
having been removed by an Other Contractor, you still felt is necessary to issue us an NCR (ref: 1). This is
unreasonable and unnecessary.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We wish to convey our concern regarding the removal of a previously installed Public Address and Voice
Evacuation (PAVE/PAVA) speaker within Retail Unit 2061 located at CP L2.0, by the Employer’s Other
Contractor, i.e. the Tennant Fitting-Out Contractor (DEEPA), the location of which is shown in Figure 1
below.
Figure 1
Unfortunately, not only has the PAVE speaker been removed by the Employer’s Other Contractor
without our permission and without us being notified beforehand (either by you or the Employer’s
Other Contractor informing us of their planned intention), but in complete ignorance of the facts, you
elected to issue us an NCR (ref: 1) relating to what you purport to be a “missing PAVA speaker” (refer to
Figure 2 below) in an effort to shift the responsibility for the same upon us: which we refute in its
entirety. We wrote informing you of our thoughts on the matter by email on 5 April 2020 [Sunday, 9:23
AM] attached at Annex B hereto.
Figure 2
We therefore put on record that this speaker had previously been installed by us, and then subsequently
inspected by you and handed-over via the Work Inspection Requests (WIR) process. It has however since
been removed by the Employer’s Other [Tennant] Contractor without our prior knowledge or
agreement.
The absence of this speaker and the potential bearing on the functionality of the PAVE system means
that we are prevented from completing Testing and Commissioning of the PAVE System to the Retail
Unit 2061.
We wish to put on record that this issue is not of our doing or responsibility, and any rectification /
remedial works necessarily required at this stage to the PAVE system, will invariably delay us. Moreover,

this act of prevention was entirely avoidable and as a result it is both delaying and disrupting our
progress.
Consequently, the purpose of this E-notice is three-fold:
•
Firstly, we wish to notify you that the removal of the PAVE speaker and the impact this has on
the PAVE system is directly attributable to the Employer’s Other Contractor as mentioned above;
•
Secondly, to request that you immediately withdraw your NCR ref: (1) entitled ‘Missing PAVA
Speaker in Retail 2061, CSP, L2.0’ as considering the circumstances, is entirely unreasonable; and
•
Lastly, to request the issuance of Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI) to enable us
to complete the rectification and replacement of the PAVE speaker noted above. This is only after the
additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
In this regard, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required
and we therefore request that you issue us a VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be
undertaken and ensure we are appropriately reimbursed – both for the additional time, and the
additional costs involved.
Finally, we urge you to take whatever action is necessary on your part to prevent any further occurrence
of damage being caused to our previously handed-over Works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
