Subject:Update to E-Notice No. 0223
Damage Caused by Employer’s Other Contractor (DUFIT Interiors LLC) to Previously Installed Light
Fixtures at CSP L1.0 Staircase 18 Sector 5.23A [Due to Water Leakages] – Request for Engineer’s
Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
We herewith provide the following update to our E-Notice No. 0223 issued by way of letter ref: (1).
By way of reminder, in letter ref: (1) we notified you of additional time and cost impacts arising in
consequence of acts of prevention on the part of the Employer’s Other Contractor (DUFIT Interiors) and
specifically the damage caused to our previously installed Fire Rated Ceiling located at CP L1.0 Corridor
2394 Sector 5.23A while they were undertaking water proofing tests to Level 2.0 Tenant Unit RU2-065.
However, we have since received a letter from our Electrical Works Subcontractor (M/s Anel Emirates)
informing us that damage has also been caused to their lighting fixtures installations (i.e. the energised
Type A65 lighting fixtures to CP Level 1.0 near Stairs 18 Corridor Sector 5.23A) due to water penetration
as a consequence of the waterproofing tests in Tenant Unit RU2-065 undertaken by DUFIT Interiors.
A copy of Anel Emirates letter dated 4 March 2020 (ref: 2), notifying us of their right to claim for all
costs, losses and any delays arising therefrom is attached hereto for your information and reference.
Accordingly we remind you that SAA8 set down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional
works are required and on the basis that the damaged ceilings and light fittings will require rectifying
then we will require the issuance of a Variation Order / Engineer’s Instruction in order for us to do so.

Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Once again, we urge you to take whatever action is necessary on your part to liaise with the Employer /
Employer’s Other Contractors to prevent any further damage to our previously completed works.
Yours faithfully,
