Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0047
Engineer’s Overdue Responses to 2,332 Shop Drawings as at 11 February 2019 – including but not
limited to Architectural, MEP, Fire Protection, Security Systems, Ceilings, Doors and Frame Shop
Drawings [issued vide 604 Submittals]

Dear Sir
Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same.
The Event(s):
In the period between 28 June 2018 and 31 January 2019, the Contractor submitted 604 Shop Drawing
Submittals containing 2,332 Shop Drawings for a variety of different disciplines (e.g. Architectural, MEP,
Fire Protection, Security Systems, Ceilings, Doors and Frames etc.] for the Engineer’s review and
approval, in the manner and on the dates recorded in the attachments included at Annex A and Annex B
hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
the Engineer is contractually obligated to respond to the Contractor’s submittals. On the basis that each
of the Shop Drawings Submittals and Shop Drawings listed in Annex B are shown to be between Rev. 00
and Rev. 2 and higher, then these ought to have been responded to by the Engineer 21, 14 and 7
calendar days later. However, the information recorded in Annex B and summarised in Annex A shows
that at the cut-off date associated with this E-Notice (which is 11 February 2019), the Engineer has
exceeded and at that point was continuing to exceed the review periods expressly stipulated in the
Contract. The summary included at Annex A shows for example, that the Engineer’s responses to the
Electrical and Mechanical Shop Drawing Submittals were late and overdue by upwards of 85 and 110
calendar days respectively.
Potential Impact:
The majority of the Shop Drawings reflected in Annex A were submitted to the Engineer for the purpose
of seeking Code 1 for Abu Dhabi Civil Defence (ADCD) approval [of the works/installations shown
thereupon]; which as the Engineer is only too aware, is an essential requisite in enabling the Contractor
obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone No.
MS09B.
Consequently, the more the Engineer prolongs the review and approval of the Shop Drawings listed in
Annex B, the more likely this will impact our ability to complete the remaining Works and / or testing
and commissioning, which will in time, invariably impact our ability to achieve Substantial Completion.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
In the meantime, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract
Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by the provisions of SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1]
to an extension to the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described
herein.
Yours faithfully,
