Subject:

RE: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance Payment

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (2) above, whereby you appear to show a disapproval of our
“On Account Monthly Advance Payment” forwarded to you via our letter reference (1) above. After
reviewing your mentioned letter, we would like to express our regret to the content thereunder.
Be informed, that as a gesture of goodwill, we proceeded with the said “On-Account Monthly Payment”
in an effort to assist you financially. Consequently, the fact that you seem to disapprove this payment
has nothing to do with the fact the Engineer has not released nor approved anything related to your
prolongation costs submission. The “on account payment” and the Engineer’s assessment are two things
that should be dealt independently. Your obligation under the Subcontract Agreement pursuant but not
limited to Clause 8 [Subcontractor's Obligations] is to take all reasonable steps to ensure that you
complete the Subcontract Works and our obligation is to take all reasonable steps to ensure that you do
so, which we have indeed taken and continue to take to ensure the smooth progress of the works.
Taking this opportunity, you are reminded that we have audited your prolongation costs submission and
have forwarded the same to the Engineer for their assessment. Please be informed that the approval of
anything related to the Prolongation Costs and Extension of Time is subject to the Engineer’s approval
pursuant to Clauses 11.4.3 and 11.4.4 [Determinations] of the Subcontract. Therefore, the approval of
your submission by the Engineer is still pending, however, that has not hindered us in assisting you
financially.
Notwithstanding the above, you are also informed that your submission of prolongation costs and
Extension of Time is not in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1
[Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract. In order to assist us and
the Engineer in establishing and agreeing with you your entitlement, you are required to submit a Claim
as per the provisions of the Subcontract Agreement. Consequently, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order for a determination to be made.
In view of the above and without prejudice to your rights under the Subcontract Agreement related to
this matter, you are reminded that it is a prerequisite under the Subcontract to provide all information
and evidence that you took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate any alleged delays as required
under the Subcontract Agreement including evidence and/or proof of loss.
In regards to your comment about a potential dispute, the Subcontract Agreement is clear as to the
procedures in place which need to be adhered to and implemented prior to any issuance of a Dispute
Notice. Thus, in the event of any potential dispute in relation to the foregoing, resolution of the same
will be in strict accordance with that of Clause 27.3 [Dispute Resolution] which forms an integral part of
the Subcontract Agreement between us. Accordingly, you are required to give notice (a Dispute Notice)
of the dispute and thereafter enter into discussions with us in an attempt to settle the dispute. In the
event we could not amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the matter to arbitration
pursuant to Clause 27.3.2. Note that arbitration is not an economic form of dispute resolution, in which
both Parties are incurring substantial legal and specialist fees.
We hope that the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
