
Subject: Amendment Agreement No.3-For On Account Monthly Advance payment
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000537 dated 6th March
2018, received on lOth March 2018.
The Contractor appears to be offering an "On Account Monthly Advance Payment" however
please be advised that we have not made such an application.
Any advance payment which is related purely to the value of our original Subcontract Price is
clearly not of any economic benefit to us and will not assist in financing our works or easing any
financial constraints imposed by our Banks.
The completion date for our Subcontract Works, in accordance with our original Subcontract,
was 27th February 2016, over two years ago and is in delay for reasons, which are not
attributable to our actions or lack of action. Expenditure on our Subcontract Works is clearly in
excess of the original Subcontract Price and our current cash-flow situation is negative, even
with previous "on account payments" and the proposed Amendment Agreement No.3.
We have submitted countless estimations of prolongation costs as requested by the Contractor
and the Engineer, supported by claims for costs associated with extensions of the Subcontract
time for completion. Our claims have not even received acknowledgement of receipt let alone a
response pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract.
We very much regret that if unconditional payment of our claims is not made soon we shall be
forced into a position whereby our works will be affected. We therefore urge your swift
settlement of our claims for the benefit of all concerned with the project since failure to do so
may force us to take our dispute to arbitration.
Subject: BIM Progress - Notice of Delay
Dear Sir,
Mr. Nicholas Galati, Project Director
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
We refer to above subject and referenced letters (1 and 2), please find our responses below:
• We have noticed in your reply (1) that you have ignored the main objective of our letter (2) that was
highlighted through four clear points and requirements, and instead you expanded in showcasing the
day to
day correspondences which forms the common conducts in the industry, where in fact all the events
that
were mentioned in your letter were originally done to help and support an accurate final BIM
deliverable.
• All your comments received via letter 1 are considered part of coordination requirements and models
development; refer to BIM Implementation Plan pages 2 and 3 of 8 in the contract, as well as to clause
K.3

point 6 in the EDI.
• We reiterate that the requested deliverables in points 2 and 4 that witnessed your delivery delays
listed in
our letter {2) are still required to be actioned by Chadwick, and that they are not affected by the
changes
highlighted in your letter 1.
• Your delay in providing the LOD400 models was highlighted back in November 2016, (ref. 4), where
the
models submission was and still falling way behind the submission of the related shop drawings which is
contradicting with the project specifications. An example of this delay is the central processor's infill and
wrapper models which are not submitted up to this date.
• The Data Drops which were requested via letter 3 are also still required to be actioned by Chadwick,
and
that they are not affected by the changes highlighted in in your letter 1.
• In addition to the above, you are reminded to ensure full commitment to the submission dates of the
LOD500 as-built BIM models in order to avoid further delays.
Your action regarding the above is urgently required.
Yours truly,
