Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Instruction Nr.89 of reference 2) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”)
13.1.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract, and the Contractor’s letter reference 1), the Contractor encloses
herewith full particulars of the cost savings induced by the optimization of the Passageways’ Width.

The cost savings issue of the Instruction reference 2) consist of three (3) main items:
1)

Reduction of excavation

2)

Reduction of concrete volume

3)

Reduction of rebar in base and roof slabs of Passageways

4)

Any Abortive Works countering omissions???

The reduction in quantities of items 1), 2) and 3) above are evaluated based on the final design as per
drawings xyz). The detailed analysis of the quantities is shown on a station by station basis in
attachment 2) to this letter.

The final design, as per the drawings in attachment 2 to this letter, was optimized in terms of two (2)
major aspects. In addition to the optimization of Passageway’s Width, according to the Engineer’s
Instruction reference 2), a structural optimization has been performed. No structurally optimized design
is available for the passageways prior to the Engineer’s Instruction reference 2).

The reduction of Passageway’s Width reduces the bending moments, and thereby the structural
requirements of the Passageways. This results in a reduction of rebar as laid out in the analysis of a
representative passageway cross-section in attachment 3. The cost savings issue out of structural
optimization directly related to the Passageway’s Width reduction is also evaluated in attachment 3 to
this letter.

Items 1) and 2) are priced based on contractual rates, but excluding preliminaries.
Item 3), as there are no applicable contractual rates available, is priced based on actual costs.
A comprehensive evaluation of the applied rates is to be found in attachment 1 to this letter.

The cost savings have been evaluated on a station by station basis and are summarized as follows:
Station
Cost Savings in [QAR]
Ras Bu Abboud
Qatar National Museum
Souq Waqif
Bin Mahmoud
Al Sadd
Joaan
Al Sudan
Al Waab
Sport City

Al Aziziyah
Doha Zoo
Al Rayan South
Muaither
Total Cost Savings
Table 1: Summary of Construction Cost Savings resulting from Engineer’s Instruction 89

The Contractor has incurred additional design costs as laid out in letter reference 1). The net cost
savings of the Employer issue of the Engineer’s Instruction No. 89 can therefore be summarized as
follows:

Engineer’s Instruction No. 89

[QAR]

Total Construction Cost Savings
Total Additional Design Costs
Net Savings
Table 2: Summary of Net Savings resulting from Engineer’s Instruction 89

The amounts set forth in Table 2

In any event, and whilst noting that the FCN 071 determination amount may be subject to further
change, the Contractor kindly requests the Employer to proceed with an interim, on-account payment of
its current determination value plus 12% for profits and overheads, in the net amount of QAR
8,627,002.43.

Such payment would be of invaluable assistance to the continued financing of the Project.

Yours faithfully,
