Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0247
Siemens Access to MTB RTUs (MV SCADA System) – Introduction of Changes to the Scope of
MTB Works – Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto, concern changes to the existing scope of Works and requires a
valid Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order in order for us to integrate the same into the Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).

Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 25 March 2020, we received your letter dated 22 March 2020 (ref: 1) entitled ‘Siemens Access to
MTB RTUs (MV Scada System)’, informing us of the following:
‘In order to resolve the issues experienced during a number of demonstrations over the past few
months relating to the communications and automatic functionality of the MV SCADA system, [the
Employer’s Third-Party Contractor] Siemens have proposed to convert the installed communications
network to the Managed Network System (MNS).
The proposed solution entails the removal of the redundant GPRS modems from the RTUs and
replacement with Moxa switches (the attached Siemens presentation provides the scope details). The
new switches will utilize the existing 48 Volt power supplies and do not require the shutdown of the
substations, therefore avoiding any disruption to the TCA JV's ongoing works.’ [Bold and underlined for
emphasis]
Amongst the attachments appended to your letter, were a series of schematic drawings prepared by
Siemens, showing the intended changes to the Remote Terminal Units (RTU) installed in the Substations.
Extracts from some of the salient schematic layouts are reproduced in Figure 1 to Figure 3 below:
Figure 1

Figure 2
Figure 3
It is evidently clear from the content of and attachments to your letter ref: (1) that the proposed works
intended to be undertaken by Siemens introduces changes to the MTB scope of works and deliverables;
consisting of the removal of the GPS modem (a component that is part of the RTU specified in
specification “RTU for DMS 261300”) which is to be replaced with a Moxa switch.
Even by your own admission, you acknowledge that the works proposed by Siemens to the RTUs (MV
SCADA System) are changes and are intended to be rolled out for the whole of the MTB:
‘The automatic functionality is fundamental to the Fire Life Safety and Power Reinstatement design
strategy and needs to be demonstrated and accepted by the CxA prior to completion, therefore the
modifications will need to be undertaken prior to Taking Over of the Works. Initially this activity will
cover the Loop 2 MV fiber optic network which composed of 16 substations and will be demonstrated to
CxA to prove its functionality … Upon successful demonstration and confirmed compliance to the
Project's requirement, the same process will be applied to the rest of the MTB substations.’
Your letter also made reference to Conditions of Contractor Clause 12.11 (‘Cooperation’) and Clause
12.12 (‘Other Contractors’) and requested that we coordinate with Siemens in order “to guarantee the
interoperability of RTU and DMS system” and concluded with statement that “an NOC will be submitted
to the Contractor to us in order to allow Siemens to proceed with the installation of the Moxa switches.”

However, in your subsequent letter dated just five days later i.e. 30 March 2020 (ref: 2) which also
served as ‘Notice to Correct’, you informed us that we had not taken any measures to manage our
Electrical Subcontractor (ANEL) and ensure compliance with the provisions of Conditions of Contract
Clauses 12.11 and 12.12 with the Employer’s Other Contractor (Siemens). In which respect you included
an extract of Section 261300-46 ‘Remote Terminal Units (RTU) for Distribution Management System
(DMS)’ pertaining to coordination with DMS supplier for the interoperability between RTU and DMS (see
Figure 4 below):
Figure 4
The above extract from Article 1.07 (‘RTU Components Characteristics and Services’), does not extend to
include changes and replacement of the components of equipment that has already been procured and
installed under the same specification; which is what you appear to be suggesting in letter ref: (2).
The fact remains, the proposed works to be undertaken by Siemens represents changes to the MTB
scope of works and deliverables, in which respect we remind you that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines
to follow if additional works are required and these modifications will warrant a valid Engineer’s
Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating any scope
changes into the Works.
Accordingly the express provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of SAA8 are patently clear: We are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Therefore, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
such as but not limited to issuing us with the modified IFC Drawings and/or Specification necessary for
the execution of such Works we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above.
Yours faithfully,
