Subject: Response to the Interim Extension of Time Claim Submissions in respect of
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters listed on Attachment # 1 of this letter concerning the purported interim claim(s)
submissions for an extension of time to which we offer the following comments:
Please be informed that you have not fully complied with the Conditions of Subcontract, in particular
with Subcontract Clause 16 and Clause 27, by failing amongst other things, to provide complete/full
details of particulars for our review and evaluation.
Despite the workshop meeting that was held at our site office on 26 November 2015 during which the
procedure and methodology for submission of claims were explained; you, apparently, opted to submit
your delay claims by using “Impacted As Planned Method”. This method does not correspond to the
method of submission/assessment of claims defined under the Subcontract. We hereby take this
opportunity to reaffirm that Time Impact Analysis (TIA) methodology is the only approved delay analysis
methodology as stipulated under Subcontract clause 27.2.
Notwithstanding the above, the adopted analysis by you does not rely on a true critical path analysis as
we observe that you have not considered any actual progress having been made during the occurrence
of the delay events. This is justification itself that you have been failing to fully comply with the
conditions of the Subcontract; namely Sub-clauses 12.27 [Progress Reports] and 16.3.2 [Subcontract
Programme] which details your obligations to submit both progress reports and an updated Subcontract
Programme to us at least once each month.
Yet, the Project record indicates that you have failed to produce an updated Subcontract Programme
together with its monthly progress report in a consistent and timely manner. The monthly updated
Subcontract Programmes form an essential part to any extension of time claim submissions of the
Subcontractor and the absence of such critical information is preventing us from monitoring the
progress and delays against your approved baseline programme. This circumstance, unless corrected,

will not help you to prove your entitlement, if any. For that alone, we advise you to complete missing
monthly reports and updates, which should have already been officially provided by you.
We further observe that you, within your purported interim delay claim submissions, have failed to
adequately demonstrate and substantiate any feasible argument/case/event. We, other than the
aforementioned methodology comments, note the following:
•
Your interim ‘submissions’ are not presented in a proper format and to the extent that will
enable us to understand the entitlement in relation to the delay events.
•
You have not been establishing the contractual liability for each delay event.
•
You have failed to adequately demonstrate the cause and the effect of the delay events. It
appears from the interim submissions; you have merely listed in chronological order the pertinent
exchanges of correspondence between the parties. We consider that this is insufficient to satisfy the
burden of proof.
•
The entitlement within the alleged interim submissions has not been fully and accurately
demonstrated by you. There is lack of progress reports, progress photographs, minute of meetings and
statement of fact supporting your claims.
At this juncture, in order to allow us to provide an assessment as per the Subcontract, you are requested
to revise and resubmit its delay claims by adopting Time Impact Analysis (TIA) methodology as required
by the Subcontract. Following are some basic requirements:
•
You should utilize your approved baseline programme (in accordance with rev.6 programme of
the Contractor) as a base of its claims for the events occurred after 5 March 2015.
•
You are requested to update the utilized programme (without any logic change unless agreed
otherwise) considering the site progress at the end of each time slice.
•
The intervals of TIA updates for each event should not be more than 1 month.
•
You are requested to prepare a detailed delay event table in a way that the table indicates
including but not limited to delay event period, pertinent delay/claim notices and individual interim
particulars submitted by you, if any. This will not only help you to explain the chronology of each delay
event in more detail, but also constitute a record whether you have complied with the condition
precedents under the Subcontract.
•
You are requested to establish the contractual liability for each delay event and provide succinct
narratives of each delay to establish the cause and effect link.
•
You need to attach physical copies of notifications themselves in a chronological order rather
than providing a list. This will also help you to clearly explain and argue its entitlement in accordance
with the letters, inspection reports, requests for information (RFI) etc.
•
You are requested to include, within your submissions, predecessor and successor tables
together with relationship and lag details for each delay event and the rationale behind your logic.
•
You are requested to use the actual data to the maximum extent for the FRAGNETS it has built.
All activity durations in the ‘FRAGNETS’ especially procurement durations, if any, should be fully
substantiated.
•
You are requested to demonstrate what actions it took to mitigate the impacts of each delay
event as pursuant to Subcontract clause 16.5.3 (b), it is your obligation to take all reasonable actions to
avoid or mitigate delays.
•
You are requested to provide ‘total float’, ‘planned duration’ and ‘at complete duration’ for each
activity of delay events/FRAGNETS.
•
You are requested to demonstrate as to how the critical path is being impacted for each time
slice. The rationale behind is to determine which delay event(s) is/are driving the critical path within
each one month interval.

•
You are requested to provide programme snapshots of the milestones for each time slice (from
a-base programme, b-progressed programme and c- impacted programme).
•
You are requested to prepare a detailed summary table depicting the results of TIA for all
programs that are utilized.
You must have expended considerable effort in developing your interim submissions. We suggest that
you may wish to approach us for further guidance and assistance.
In conclusion, you are requested to revise and resubmit your delay claims in line with the
abovementioned requirements.
The above is for your information and action.
Yours faithfully,
