Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0274
Employer’s Fit-Out Contractor’s Works Affecting Security Systems Installations to North Lounge –
Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The event identified in Annex A hereto records delays attributable to the works of the Employer’s Other
Contractor (DEPA) to our previously installed Security Systems to the North Lounge, requiring
rectification and as such warrants an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us
to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We are appreciably concerned about the implications of the actions and works of the Employer’s Fit-out
Contractor (DEPA) is having and will continue to have on our previously installed Security Systems to the
North Lounge. Unfortunately, despite the Security Systems having been installed, inspected, and
handed over by us via the Work Inspection Requests (WIR) process, many of the Security System devices
have subsequently been impacted (i.e. obstructed, and in some instances covered entirely), by DEPA’s

fitting out construction activities, such as wall tiling and gypsum plaster board. Sample photos
illustrating these obstructions are provided in Photo 1 to Photo 6, while the locations are shown in
Figures 1 to 3 below.
Photo 1
Photo 2
Photo 3

Photo 4
Photo 5
Photo 6

Figure 1 – Level L3.0 Sector 5.13C
Figure 2 – Level L3.0 Sector 5.14B
Figure 3 – Level L3.0 Sector 5.15A
For clarity please note that: Photos 1 to 3 relate to Sector 5.15A (shown in Figure 3); Photo 4 is related
to Sector 5.13C (shown in Figure 1); and Photos 5 and 6 relate to Sector 5.14B (shown in Figure 2).
The content of the foregoing photos provided in Photo 1 to Photo 6, are self-explanatory and support
not only the fact that the DEPA’s fitting out construction activities, such as wall tiling and gypsum plaster
board, constructing and in some instances covering the security devices completely, but the fact we
were not given any prior notification that our Security Systems installations would be affected in this
manner, points to a distinct lack of coordination on your part to inform us [of the intended activities of
DEPA]. This would have allowed us the opportunity to remove the affected devices and associated
installations prior to allowing the Employer’s Fit-out Contractor (DEPA) to continue with their fitting out
construction works.
By not informing us has increased the possibility of abortive works, reworks and even potential damage
to some of our installed and signed off and inspected security systems equipment. In addition to the reworks or potential damage created by the situation described above, we have to highlight the fact that it
appears that the Engineer’s security systems team representative is not following up with the other
Contractor’s works, and informing us with regards of aforesaid works in progress. We have previously
addressed matters such as this and respectfully refer you to our letter dated 12 May 2020 reference
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/015538, issued in relation to the ‘FR camera in lounges’ issue. It appears that the
Engineer’s representative is focusing more on finding issues with our Security Systems Subcontractor
installations, even where the issues does not exist, and turning them into NCR’s rather than focusing on
the actual status and sequence of works on site, and maintaining overall coordination amongst various
project contractors. In all, this creates additional delay to the completion of Security Package, and since
our works are completed in the aforesaid areas, following approved shop drawing and recorded vide
WIRs, then the security systems subcontractor (ATLAS) will have to revise its Shop Drawings, remove
installed devices, re-pull cables and re-install the affected devices, in order to re-align the systems on
site; all of which will require that you issues us an Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order for us to
proceed.

Therefore, in accordance with your obligations under SAA8, please issue us an Engineer’s Instruction and
Variation Order so that we may undertake all necessary works to the affected security systems.
Furthermore, we request you to take necessary action to prevent any further occurrence of damages to
our previously handed-over security systems installation by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA).
Yours faithfully,
