
Dear Sir,

Following receipt of the Contractor's letter M006-GDB-ENG-LTR-00178 dated 15 January 2015, the
Engineer Assistant wishes to refer you to Sub - clause 2.1.2 b) of Volume 5 of Condition of the Contract
where it highlights that underground and above ground ancillary structures including ventilation shafts,
plant rooms are part of the Scope of Work under the Contract.

A Traction Power Supply (TPS) in the Emergency Exit Shaft at Al Sharq is required as per Sub-clause
14.3.2.3 of Volume 6. It will be necessary to consider a space reservation in the tunnel section for TPS.

The Contractor is requested to submit a Design for the Emergency Exit Shaft at Al Sharq which is
compliant with the Employer Requirements as per the Condition of the Contract. We require a
submission from you by 15 February 2015.

Your attention is drawn to the contractual milestone dates that apply to this structure namely STKID.06
and the conditions attached to achieving compliance with these date

The Engineer's Assistant refers to the Contractor's letter reference M006-GDB-ENG-LTR-0

G1 v

which the Contractor expressed his disagreement in relation to the Employer's Requirements for t e
provision of Traction Power Supply and related infrastructure at Emergency Exit, Sharq Village, as
stipulated in:

Volume 6 - Employer's Requirements - Design Specifications, Sub-clauses 14.1.1, 14.1.2 and 14.3.2.3.
Volume 8 - Employer's Requirements - Tender Drawings, UIP Emergency Exit & TPS Building, Sharq
Village, drawing reference M006-QRC-UIF-DWG-YEEESHQ-00-21004.
In his defense, the Contractor cites Volume 9 - Employer's Requir.ements - Employer's Investigations,
Employer Report No. 1.2.1.5, asserting that there is no contractual requirement for the provision of
Traction Power Supply through the Emergency Exit at Sharq Village. The Engineer refutes the
Contractor's assertion as Volume 9, Employer's Investigations is accompanied with the following
disclaimers:

Volume 9, Clause 1- Employer's Investigation

1.1.1 The Employer provides in this Volume 9 the product of additional investigations that are made
available to the Contractor on an 'information only ' basis to afford completeness of available
information.
1.1.2 It is noted emphatically that any interpretation, conclusion or reliance placed on this
information by the Contractor or arising therefrom shall be entirely at the Contractor's risk. The
Employer does not warrant the completeness or correctness of this information, either directly or by
inference, and it shall be entirely for the Contractor to formulate his own interpretation and prove
assumptions. This shall remain entirely at the Contractor 's risk.
It is our understanding that due to the distance between Ras Bu Abboud Station and Qatar National
Museum that there is a necessity for an "inter station" structure. Such a structure is also shown in
Volume 8 - Employers Requirements - Tender Drawings, reference M006-QRC-UIF-DWG-YEEESHQ- 0021004 - UIP Emergency Exit & TPS Building, Sharq Village, as noted above.

Further, we wish to highlight that your reference to various reports related to power and water demand
are not valid as they relate to an older project configuration when the distance between Ras Bu Abboud
and Qatar National Museum was much shorter than it is now.
The element of design related to the provision of TPS associated structures is now in delay and we
respectfully request that the Contractor progress this item of design in a timely manner to meet Master
Programme scheduled dates.

Yours faithfully,
