Subject: Delay Notice No. 1023: Engineer's Late and Overdue Response to the
Dear Sir,
Contractor's Various Test Inspection Requests for Interface Verification Tests
(IVT)
In the period between 12 December 2017 and 6 February 2018, the Contractor submitted ten (10) Test
Inspection Requests ('TIR') for Interface Verification Tests ('IVT') for various interfaces of the Airport
Operational System ('AOS') Package, for the Engineer's review and approval, in the manner shown in
Annex A hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 'Submittal Procedures' governs the processing t ime by which
the Engineer is contractually obligated to review and respond to the Contractor's submittals. Therefore,
on the basis that the TIRs are at Rev. 00 and Rev. 01, then these ought to have been responded to by the
Engineer within 21 and 14 calendar days, in the period between 26 December 2017 and 27 February
2018.
However, Annex A illustrates that the Engineer exceeded and continues to exceed the review period for
an initial submittal and a first re-submittal review expressly stipulated in the Contract, by upwards of 76
calendar days.
The Engineer's failure to respond to the TIRs for IVT for testing of the AOS in a timely manner and in any
event, within the review times expressly detailed in the Contract, has prevented and is continuing to
prevent the Contractor from completing the Interface Verification Tests for the AOS Package. Therefore,
the Contractor urges the Engineer to expedite the review of the noted TIRs and issue the response and
associated status code without any further undue delay.
The Contractor therefore contends that the foregoing constitutes a breach of Contract and/or an act of

prevention on the part of the Employer's Personnel. Therefore, in accordance with Conditions of
Contract
Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27 .1.1, the Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i) An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii) An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in
due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.S(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
