Dear Sir,

Further to the Contractor's formal Claim No.021 interim submission issued under cover of reference 2,
the Contractor hereby confirms that in this month, September 2015, there is currently no additional
information available to vary or alter the August 2015 interim submission.

The Contractor shall keep the situation under review over the next month and will advise the Engineer's
Assistant of any changes and/or developments with respect to Claim No. 021 within October 2015
monthly update.

Claim No. 021 September 2015 monthly update (in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.6 of the General
Conditions of the Contract) is therefore as per the August 2015 interim submission.
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Instruction ("El") Nr 82 at reference 1 (received by the
Contractor on 27 October 2015) which has been issued as a Variation Instruction pursuant to General
Condition ("GC")
13.1.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract.

The Contractor is of the opinion that this Engineer's Variation Instruction may provide the Contractor
with entitlement for additional payment for the resulting var ied Works as an addition to the Contract
Price pursuant to GC 13.6.1 and may provide the Contractor with entitlement to receive extension(s) to
the affected Time(s) for Completion pursuant to GC 8.4.1(a) for any delays consequently incurred due to
executing the varied Works.

Accordingly, the Contractor hereby notifies the Engineer's Assistant of the Contractor's intention to laim
for its possible entitlement (1) for additional payment due to El Nr 82 (notification pursuant to GC
20.1.2) and, (2) for any extens ions to the affected Time(s) for Completion for any delays that may be
incurred due to El Nr 82 (notification pursuant to GC 8.4.2 and GC 20.1.2).

Please rest assured however that notwithstanding the above, the Contractor will endeavour, in
accordance with its contractual obligations, to mitigate any delays and additional costs incurred due to
El Nr 82.
Dear Sir,

The Client refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Consultant submitted its lump sum fee proposal in
the form of a F-ee Change Notic9(FCN), for matters that the Consultantconsidersconstrue aVariationpursuant to Sub-Clause 4.4 of the Agreement.

Please find below the Client's determination of FCN 071 - AGS, SAP, Subway Width Reduction, Pop-ups,
Travellators & Engineers Bulletin.

FCN
Description

Adjustment of Agreed Compensation

Impact on Time Schedule

FCN 071
AGS, SAP, Subway Width Reduction, Pop-ups, Travellators & Engineers Bulletin QAR
37,952,513.83 Yes

The detailed calculations for the determination of FCN 071 - AGS, SAP, Subway Width Reduction, Popups, Travellators & Engineers Bulletin are enclosed herewith.

The impact on the Time Schedule is under assessment and shall be addressed under separate
correspondence.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification. Yours faithfully,
