
Subject:Milestone Payments – Memorandum of Understanding No. 8
Dear Sir,
Pertaining to the subject matter and further to your letter referenced (2) above, we would like to clarify
that TCAJV have agreed to make additional on-account payments to J&H Emirates to complete the
remaining Subcontract Works as per the payment milestones listed in Appendix-2 upon achievement of
the progress and completion milestone dates.
The said on-account payments will be released as per the defined time line indicated in Appendix-2
upon accomplishment of the requirements of the progress milestones listed in Appendix-1, completion
milestone dates listed in Appendix-3 and the completion of the activities listed in action plan of
Appendix-4 and the program.
Further to the above and pursuant to clause 3 on page 1 of the MOU, you are required to provide
evidences to show that such on-account payments have been passed on to your Creditors in order to
maintain required level of progress and completion of the Subcontract Works. Hence, we hereby
request you to provide the evidences at the earliest with respect to the first milestone payment of AED
28.8 million released to you.
Regarding the second milestone payment, we would like to remind you that the requirement of
providing the Retention Bond with extended validity to the date of 31 October 2021 is pending from J&H
Emirates. Also, installation of five swing doors and one curved sliding door is pending in Pier-4. And
delivery of door hardware and installation is also pending. This payment shall be released upon
accomplishment of the relevant milestones.
And regarding the third milestone payment, we would like to remind you that delivery of all materials to
the site is pending as it has to be accomplished by end of January 2019. Delivery of door leaves for two
aluminum swing doors is pending and delivery of door hardware and installation is pending. Also,
completion of all works on CP-PrL is pending. This payment shall be released upon accomplishment of
the relevant milestones.
In light of the above we emphasize you to expedite the progress of the works in accordance with the
milestone requirements so that the payments can be released accordingly.

Yours faithfully,
