Subject OTIS's ongoing lack of performance - Notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to letter (1) regarding your Subcontractor's (OTIS) lack of performance and

continuous shortfalls in progress.
The Contractor has identified that the reason for its Subcontractor's underperformance is related to
inadequate site management (Construction Managers and Supervisors) as well as qualified site
personnel. The Contractor has committed that its Subcontractor in order to rectify its deficiencies shall
provide an additional QA/QC Manager and Construction Manager (in early March), 6 adjusters,
additional erectors for the elevators and 10 more mechanics for the escalator team (ref. enclosed email
1).
lt is the Employer's and the Engineer's position that the above measures are not adequate in order to
address the adverse implications to the Programme of Works which have been created as a result of
your Subcontractor. The extent of the slippage of your Subcontractor's works is shown at the table
below:
In light of the above, and as demonstrated in the enclosed Programme Update, the works on site are at
risk and further delays will occur as a result of OTIS's underperformance. The Contractor is hereby given
notice pursuant to Clause 12.10.1 of the Conditions of Contract to immediately rectify its
Subcontractor's performance.
Subject I B-EY Hermes test delayed due to Etihad connectivity issue
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and we note that the IB - Hermes witness test could
not be performed on 13 December 2017 due the Contractor's Subcontractor (AOS). The Contractor
alleged that the Hermes test was delayed as a result of Etihad's unavailability however, we record that
your Subcontractor was not prepared for the test to be performed.
We further highlight that the IB- Sabre dry run was cancelled on 18 December 2017 due to SIT A test
platform issues.
The Contractor is requested to effectively managed its Subcontractors (Clause 12.9.6 Conditions of
Contract) and ensure that they perform as required under the Contract. You are also requested to
ensure systems readiness in advance of test sessions, with sufficient notice for all parties to be
prepared.
Subject: Additional Management of Atlas Security
Dear Sir,
Further to the receipt of the above referenced correspondence regarding the extension of support to
the
Security Subcontractor we confirm that the information requested was provided via our revised ROM
283
issued to the Engineer on 27 November 2017.
As noted within the aforementioned ROM, it is expected that additional funds will be required to
continue
to provide support to ATLAS Security until the expected completion date. It is our belief that additional
costs will be incurred from the end of April 2018, at which time all additional support will cease.

We await the receipt of an appropriate Variation Order to continue the provided support beyond the
original AED 30 million budget.
Yours faithfully
