Subject:Notice of Delay on FDB Completion Due to Other Trades Works
Dear Sir/Madam,
Further to your letter referenced (1) above, we hereby set out our response accordingly.

We are not in agreement with your statement that you are being delayed in the Piers by the Contractor
and Other Sub-Contractors. . The Contractor hereby responds as per the attached, which is selfexplanatory and inform you that will not accept the comments in paragraph two of the above
referenced letter, with specific reference to “Attachment 1” as follows:
Type 1 – Might have been delayed
Type 2 – Not Valid
Type 3 – Comments Valid
However, it should be noted that most of the panels were cleared and even F4 has been approved prior
to the date of your letter. Therefore the content of paragraph 3 (“Attachment 2”) in the above
mentioned letter is also rejected.
The Contractor further raises its serious concern, regarding the Sub-Contractor’s own progress pursuant
to Sub-Clause 16.3 (Subcontractor’s Programme) in the following areas:
1.
Aaa
2.
Bbb
3.
Ccc
4.
Etc…
The Sub-Contractor is required to submit its EOT & prolongation Costs and disruption costs in the form
of a Claim in compliance with all of your related obligations under the Subcontract, including but not
limited to Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims]
and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the General Conditions.
Further to the above, the Sub-Contractor is reminded of its responsibilities under the Sub-Contract
Agreement pursuant to Sub-Clause 12.1 (The Subcontractor’s General Obligations), to comply with the
revised submission dates. Failure to comply with these revised dates, the Contractor shall recover any
costs incurred from monies due or to become due from the monthly interim payments pursuant to SubClause 16.4 (Recovery of Delays), Sub-Clause 16.6 (Delay Damages) and Sub-Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s
Claims) of the Sub-Contract Agreement.
We hope that the above clarifies our position on the matter.

Yours faithfully,
