Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 1) the Contractor encloses herewith its revised
valuation in relation to the Centralized Cooling Plant variation pursuant to its GC 13.2.2 obligations. The
Contractor has incorporated both the proposed cost optimizations as well as the scope changes arising
out of the CCP 0.2 minor design submission and hereby provides its itemized responses to the issues
raised via letter reference 1) as follows:

Engineer’s Assistant Comment Contractor’s Response
Implementations of the optimizations (SCH-10/20 chilled water pipes + 1.0 Aluminum jacketing for
piping to be 0.3 mm foil) as agreed during the meeting on Sunday 6 November 2016 (refer to M006-LBEENG-MOM-01127) to be confirmed by the Contractor Cost optimization has been incorporated into
the revised quotation of attachment 1). The Contractor further notes that Sch. 10 CHW pipes were not
approved by the designer and hence all CHW pipes above DN200 shall be Schedule 20.
Contractor to check if there is a need for VRV units.
Minor revision 0.2 of the CCP is in-line with the
design concept of the stations. Similarly to the station MEP designs, the UPS and Battery rooms are
served by VRV units only.
1.

HVAC Equipment

Isolating Butterfly Valve (DN 200 mm) – quantity of 220 considered too high
The correct quantity is
20 valves, this was a typo error by the Contractor in its previous submission which has been rectified in
the revised valuation of attachment 1).
The quantity for galvanized steel ductwork to be checked with the CCP drawings.
been revised in this valuation to reflect the latest 0.2 minor revision.

Quantity has

Smoke ventilation ductwork – The EA considers that this is not required. The Contractor to check and
confirm.
Smoke ventilation system required as per NFPA requirements.

Insulation for the smoke and extract duct to be justified Insulation to smoke and extract ducts for fire
proofing purposes only.
Motorized smoke fire dampers – rate and quantities to be checked. The Contractor to confirm why
motorized smoke fire damper are required if there is no smoke exhaust. No considerable price
difference between motorized smoke and fire dampers (MSFD) vs. motorized fire dampers (MDF).
Moreover, MSFD’s provide superior air tightness.
2.

HVAC System Tunnel

Access ladders, steel access platforms etc. – value included considered too high and should be
substantiated. Value has been reduced in this revised valuation.
Commissioning Set – Contractor to verify the need of 8 commissioning sets.

4 sets for the CCP

1 set per station (total of 3) + 1 set for stabling yard
3.

Electrical

8 No. of 400 kW VFD provided to be checked for the design requirements and costs.
VFD’s were not
matching the mechanical design in minor design submission rev. 0.1 and hence revised by WP in minor
design submission rev. 0.2. Specification and price of VFD’s has been revised herewith.
Quantity of cables – requirements to be confirmed.
Cables and Panels were not matching the
mechanical design in minor design submission rev. 0.1 and hence revised by WP in minor design
submission rev. 0.2. Quantities and hence price of cables and panels has also been revised herewith.
4.

Plumbing

Oil Interceptor – The EA considers that this is not required because it is already implemented in the
stabling yard. Contractor to confirm.
Rated effluent to oil interceptor is adjusted to account for CCP.
Domestic water pipes and Cu pipe with insulation (100 & 150 mm) – the EA requests the Contractor to
confirm the current design configuration and material required. Pipework is exposed between stabling
yard and CCP and therefore requires insulation.
Water meters for 100 mm and 150 mm to be confirmed by the Contractor
5.

Confirmed.

Fire Fighting

Clean agent fire suppression system (CAFSS) – all items pricing considered high. To be reviewed and
confirmed by Contractor.
Contractor has reviewed the room schedule and adjusted the CAFSS
sizing and cost to the latest room sizes indicated in the FM200 Hydraulic Calculations (M006-GDB-FRSCLN-00069).
6.

Spare parts

Substantiation required in terms of itemization of the spare parts included. To be updated by the
Contractor.
To be provided in due course.

The commercial impact arising out of the scope changes imposed by the minor revision 0.2 amount to
an additional 16% in direct costs when compared to the Contractor’s previous submission. It is evident
therefore that a) the Contractor was indeed exposed to a commercial risk in its previous valuation and
b) the 5% allowance for risk has proven (in retrospect) to be an underestimate.

Until the MEP design is fully finalized the Contractor shall remain exposed to further potential increases
in cost and therefore maintains its allowance for 5% risk in its evaluation which is clearly marked as a
separate item in the Bill of Quantities of attachment 1).

The proposed, interim adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of xxx as detailed in the Bill
of Quantities of attachment 1). The Contractor reserves its rights to recover any time related costs in
connection to this proposed Variation which shall be addressed under a separate cover.

Yours faithfully,
