Subject: Subcontractor's Claims Process Reminder
Dear Sir,
We refer to Attachment #1 which indicates the letters issued with subject 'Construction Delay and/or
Disruption Events' and remind you of your obligations pursuant ·o Oall-se-2-7-:-l- and 27:2-ot the
Conditions of Subcontract regarding the claims process.
The table below summarizes the Subcontractor's relevant obligations in relation to notifications and the
provision of further particulars in relation to the prevailing Conditions of Subcontract.
Description
Notify the Contractor of an event giving rise to an entitlement to any extension of the Time for
Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Subcontract Price and or any
other costs or damages. Provide a fully detailed claim including supporting particulars of any extension
of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price and
or any other costs or damages, to which he may consider himself entitled in order that such submission

may be investigated at the time. For ongoing issues, provide interim particulars of any extension of the
Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Costs, an adjustment to the Subcontract Price
and or any other costs or damages to which it may consider himself entitled.
For ongoing issues, provide final particulars of any extension of the Time for Completion,
reimbursement of additional costs, an adjustment to the Contract Price and
or any other costs or damages to which he may consider himself entitled.
Timescale
Within 21 days after the Subcontractor becoming aware, or should have been aware, of such event
having first arisen. Within 28 days, or such other reasonable time as may be approved by the Contractor,
after notification submitted to the Contractor. At intervals of not more than monthly. Within not more
than 7 days from the end of the effects resulting from the event. We urge the Subcontractor to comply
with the above stated contractual obligations in respect of the alleged delay events. Furthermore, the
Subcontractor is requested to demonstrate by return that its claim submissions adhere to the above
contractual provisions. Notwithstanding the above, PCE JV have mentioned in the referenced letters
that 'we shall continue to take all reasonable steps to mitigate the effects of such upon our works, in
accordance with our contractual obligations'. However, statement is too generic and remains
unsubstantiated. We take this opportunity to also remind you that pursuant to Subcontract clause
16.5.3 (b); the Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion in respect of any event or period of delay which the Subcontractor has not taken all
reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate (including any steps required to comply with the Contractor's
instructions under clause 16.4.1). This is for you information and action.
Yours faithfully,
