Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0281
Access Barrier at ATRS Smart Lane 16 Screening Area L2.0
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern acts of prevention on your / the Employer’s part, associated
with pending confirmation of the access barrier requirements at ATRS Smart Lane 16 screening area
L2.0.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
Background
At a site walk on 11 February 2020 involving us, you and the Employer, you informed us that a
separation was required at the ‘Smart Lane 16 Search Table’; the objective of which was to prevent
passengers entering the screening area while accessing the search table to collect their luggage (Figure 1
refers):

We put on record that the separation was specified to be provided by ‘Others’ and it was not under our
scope of works, as per the fit-out requirements and the approved Shop Drawing No: 401-MHA-SS-01-205.22-M-SD-007 (Figure 2 refers). Specifically, the comments annotated upon Shop Drawing No: 401MHA-SS-01-20-5.22-M-SD-007 clearly indicates that the “infills and partitions are by others”.
Figure 1
Figure 2 – Shop Drawing No: 401-MHA-SS-01-20-5.22-M-SD-007
Our letter ref: (1) was issued due to the fact that between February and May 2020, no action has been
taken by ‘Others’ in regards to closing the gap at the concerned area and no further information or
interface details were provided by you. We note that this issue has caused numerous delays to our
works located at Smart Lane 16, since we have not been able to finalize the works associated with the
PBSS equipment, including the locations of the bottle liquid scanner (BLS) and locations of the ion
scanner and cable routing; and moreover, we have been prevented from completing the relevant AsBuilt Drawings.
On 31 May 2020 (letter ref: 2), you responded to letter ref: (1), attaching email correspondence
between you and the Employer (ADAC), confirming the Employer’s decision to select ‘Option 1’ out of
the two (2) options associated with the final location of the BLS and the ion scanner, discussed during
the site walk in February 2020 (refer to Figure 3 below). While in another e-mail the Employer states
that a “glass partition to fill the gap” will be added at a later stage. Finally, in your letter ref: (2) you
requested us to “coordinate the power and data outlet required for the BLS and ETD equipment and
proceed accordingly.”
Figure 3
However, matters have continued such that at the date of preparing this E-Notice No. 0281 (i.e. 18 June
2020), the resolution of this issue – initially discussed with you on 11 February 2002 – still remains
outstanding. This is in excess of four months ago. The continued failure on your / the Employer’s part
to provide us with necessary IFC Drawings in confirmation of the requirements for closing the gap
between the ‘Smart Lane 16 Search Table’ and the opposite wall remains on-going and as such
continues to prevent us from finalizing the locations of the PBSS equipment installations described
above.
It is because of the continued acts of prevention on your part and the part of the Employer that we raise
this E-Notice No. 0281, to notify you that such delays will impact on our ability to achieve Substantial
Completion. Any delays to completion of our Works at this juncture of the Project, will prevent us
obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC), which is critical in us achieving completion of
Milestone MS09B and will prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
We therefore urge you to resolve this matter forthwith and issue us the IFC Drawings and accompanying
EI in confirmation of closing the gap between ‘Smart Lane 16 Search Table’ and wall; all as outlined
above.
Yours faithfully,
