
Subject Subcontractor's Commercial Team
Dear Sir,
The Contractor refers to the requests for reimbursement of additional costs submitted by the
Subcontractor
recently and shares its dissatisfaction with the quality of these submissions. To be clear:
None of the submissions prepared by the Subcontractor provide the minimum level of information vis-avis
the entitlement, substantiation, effect and quantum of its claims. These documents consist of a brief
cover
page, an unsubstantiated summary cost and random attachments which purpose is not explained and,
in

many instances, not understood by the Contractor. Moreover, these claims neglect any time-related
provision
of the Subcontract as they relate to additional works allegedly undertaken years ago.
Having no intention of depriving the Subcontractor of its rights, the Contractor is unable to assess the
Subcontractor's entitlements with the level and quality of the information provided to date. In addition,
it is
regrettable that the Contractor is being prevented from forwarding, presenting and discussing many
Variations with the Engineer I Employer due to the lack of information and back-up documentation
provided
by the Subcontractor thus far.
Further to numerous meetings and discussions held with representatives of the Subcontractor, the
Contractor
believes that the personnel employed by the Subcontractor is incapable of producing commercial
submissions
that meet the standards of the Project and that enable the Contractor to determine any additional
payment
the Subcontractor may be entitled to. Hence, the Contractor confirms that the members of the
Subcontractor's Commercial Department have been carrying out their duties both incompetently and
negligently.
The Contractor feels prudent to remind the Subcontractor that the provisions of the Subcontract clearly
state
that the Subcontractor's Personnel shall be appropriately qualified, skilled and experienced in their
respective
trades or occupations; yet, the members of the Subcontractor's Commercial Department are not. In
view of
the foregoing, the Contractor adheres to its rights under Sub-Clause 14.9.3 of the Conditions of
Subcontract
and requires these persons to be removed and replaced by competent individuals experienced in
managing all
commercial aspects of the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
