Subject: Alternative Dispute Resolution Proposal
Dear Sir,
Further to the informal discussions with AECOM and ADAC commercial teams on the above subject, we
wish to formally propose an alternative dispute resolution process in the form of a 'Dispute Adjudication
Board' [DAB] as an alternative to the Arbitration process provided pursuant to Clause 27.3 in the
Conditions of Contract.
We attach hereto the following proposals for your review:
1. An Agreement for the Amendment to the Conditions of Contract, and
2. A Dispute Adjudication Agreement to be entered into between the Employer, the Contractor and each
DAB member.
We propose a DAB as an alternative to the Arbitration process for the following reasons:
A. Currently, in the event we disagree with the Engineer's determination of a variation or claim in terms
of Clause 11.4.2 [Determinations], we are compelled to refer the matter for settlement pursuant to
Clause 27.3 [Dispute Resolution], irrespective of value.
B. In terms of Clause 27.3.1 we are required to give notice (a Dispute Notice) of the dispute and
thereafter enter into discussions with the Employer in an attempt to settle the dispute.
C. In the event the Parties could not amicably settle the dispute we would be compelled to refer the
matter to arbitration pursuant to Clause 27.3.2.
D. Arbitration is not a 'private' forum in which to settle disputes, the Rules are set by a third party and
arbitration is not an economic form of dispute resolution- both Parties incurring substantial legal and
'specialist' fees.
E. In terms of this alternative dispute resolution process a dispute, with value equal to or less than a
limit to be agreed between the Parties (the DAB limit), of say AED 75 million, would be referred to the
DAB in terms of amended Clau se 27.3.1 for its adjudication and decision.
23'd September 2013
Reference: MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/000927
F. Disputes with value greater than the DAB limit could be referred to the DAB by agreement or be
referred to the Parties for amicable settlement in terms of amended Clause 27.3.2. Failing amicable
settlement the dispute could be referred to arbitration in terms of amended Clause 27.3.3.
G. The DAB form of dispute resolution is 'private', the DAB Rules are developed by and agreed between
the Parties and the DAB is a more economic approach to dispute settlement.
H. Periodic visits to the Works by the DAB members would permit them to become and remain

acquainted with the progress of the Works and of any actual or potential problems or claims that
could lead to a dispute.
I. The DAB process would permit prompt decisions to disputes that would otherwise be deferred for
several months. The earlier determinations under the DAB process would greatly assist both the
Employer and the Contractor with budget I income forecasting thereby removing the 'un known' and
indirectly improving day to day working relationships.
J. Decisions of the DAB would be final and binding on the Parties.
We would appreciate your review of the attached and the opportunity to discuss this alternative dispute
resolution proposal with you as soon as possible.
Yours faithfully,
