Subject:

Pending Subcontract Agreement

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, this is to raise our concern regarding the Subcontract Agreement
which is yet to be issued by you, for our works currently being executed.
We note that numerous reminders have been sent and communicated to you about this matter, both
verbally and in writing. An example of our reminders is our correspondences, including but not limited,
to the emails dated 10 November 2020 [3:33 PM] and 18 October 2020 [2:04 PM] attached to Annex C
and Annex D hereto respectively. Specifically, via our aforesaid emails we informed you that we have
not yet received the Subcontract Agreement for the following works, which is essentially all our scope of
works:

•
Civil works for SWRO Plant- DAF Building (for which we have only been issued a Letter of
Acceptance);
•
Civil works for SWRO Plant Building 49- Waste Water Tanks;
•
Civil works for SWRO Plant Building 25-Reverse Osmosis CIP Building;
•
Civil works for SWRO Plant Building 56- Electrochlorination Building.
We wish to put on record, that you have sent a draft Subcontract Agreement for review by us, via your
email 4 October 2020 [11:30], attached to Annex D hereto. However, this draft Subcontract Agreement
was evidently put together from another agreement which was made for the procurement and supply of
material/equipment, and not for workmanship services reflecting our scope. Consequently, this
agreement was rejected by us via our email on 4 October 2020 [16:13], which is attached to Annex D
hereto and is self-explanatory. For this reason, we reiterate once more that we are still awaiting the
issuance of a suitable Subcontract Agreement reflecting our scope of works. We will continue carrying
out the works out of good faith, until a Subcontract Agreement is issued by you. Notwithstanding, we
reserve all our rights either under implied terms of the Subcontract or at law.
We are taking this opportunity to inform you about our concern on the lack of a Subcontract
Agreement, after your numerous requests for us to proceed and expedite the completion of the works,
on the available work-fronts, as seen in your email dated 16 November 2020 [4:40 PM] attached to
Annex A.
In addition, subsequent to our discussions regarding your request to increase our scope, we have
submitted our Quotations for the three (3) buildings on the Project, namely Building 49, Building 25, and
Building 56 for your review and acceptance. We note that we have already submitted our application for
the Interim Payment Application (IPA) No. 1 for Building 49 since some of the works have already been
completed by us out of good faith. Moreover, we have submitted an application for advance payment
for all three (3) of the aforementioned buildings as agreed between us, in the manner shown on Table 1
below (refer to yellow highlighted Items 3 to 6):

Table 1

Also, on 16 November 2020 [16:12], we sent you an email (attached to Annex B hereto), to follow up on
all of our pending IPAs (Items 1 to 6), to which we received a response from your representative on 16
November 2020 [4:31 PM], attached to Annex B, requesting us to send the “Signed Contract for Waste
Water (49) & ROCIP (25) Buildings”. In this regard, we request the issuance of the Subcontract
Agreement the soonest, but in meantime, we kindly request you to issue an on-account payment on a
quantum meruit basis until the Subcontract is prepared.
Furthermore, it is worth noting that the Interim Payment Certificate (IPC) for IPA No. 008 has not been
issued yet and is already overdue, and IPC 009 is also pending for issuance and will be overdue on 19
November 2020. Both IPAs are shown in Items 1 and 2 in Table 1 above.
In view of the foregoing, we kindly remind and request you once again to expedite the issuance of the
Subcontract Agreement for our works and proceed with the release of our pending payments as shown
in Table 1 above.

We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory, and you will carry out the necessary action as a
matter of urgency.
Yours faithfully,
