Subject:Notice of Delay – Slow Progress, non-performance and Undeliverable Recovery
Plans as of 11th December 2018
Dear Sir,

We write this notice to record our utmost concern regarding your slow rates of progress and your failure
to take remedial actions to correct the same, which has lead to irrecoverable delays causing a major risk
to the successful completion of the MTB Project.
We repeat, that it is of paramount importance that you counter this adverse situation by recognising the
key concerns relayed to you throughout this notice and advise on rectification measures within (7 days)
of receiving this letter, which should include:
1.
A "Detailed Mitigation and recovery Plan" with supporting a report as per Subcontract Clause
16.4.1 [Recovery of Delays];
2.
Ensure that all Engineering requirements (Shop Dwgs, Field Changes, As-Builts, BIM etc.) are
satisfied;
3.
Complete all outstanding Mock-up works;
4.
Provide a clear and structured strategy for managing all outstanding procurement and
fabrication processes;
5.
As part of the recovery plan, demonstrate how your installation teams will achieve the current
programme requirements (Rev.11);
6.
Demonstrate that you have a clear and structured strategy for the closing-out of all outstanding
inspections (WIR’s);
7.
Provide a detailed schedule for the submission of all outstanding claims and variations;
Within the context of the above listed measures, the following sections denote the status of your works
as of 11th December 2018 and accounts for the delays that you will need to address and through your
proposed mitigation measures.

A - AGC's delayed Engineering Works - Rectification measures required
A.1) Shop Drawings and As-Built drawing Development
Based on our records (refer to attachment 1), your shop drawings are approaching completion (17nr
awaiting approval from TCAJV and/or ADAC). However, your As-Built submissions are significantly
lacking in progress. As of the end of November 2018, you were scheduled to submit 562nr as-built
drawings whereas your actual submissions amount to 126nr (22% of the target) of which only 4nr have
been approved with 122nr at Code-3 status (rejected). These drawings have primarily been rejected for
non-compliance with the required CAD standards – for example, 106nr have been rejected for red line
marking.
We draw your attention to the above correspondence (4) which clearly states our engineering
department’s submission dates. Due to the extent of the outstanding works we request you to outline a
clear mitigation plan regarding the above to ensure these dates are achieved.

A.2) Field Change Requests / Issues

The TCAJV Engineering Team have also raised significant concerns regarding the quality of your
engineering works and delayed response to onsite developments resulting in a significant increase in
Field Change Requests. We note that you have raised 58nr RFI’s for field change requests to date – these
requests have begun to sharply increase now that the inspections and WIR process has commenced.
We advise you to continue to mitigate and recover your as-built drawing activities; including improving
the quality/output of your current resources to ensure these delays are recovered.

A.3) Status Building Information Modelling (BIM)
Further to our correspondence above (6), we draw your attention to your continued poor performance
in relation to your BIM obligations. Our records show (refer to attachment 2) that 11nr LOD 500 models
are now delayed beyond the submission dates, marked as ‘delayed by AGC’ on the attachment. In
addition to the above 8nr models have also been returned to you due to non-compliance (code 3’s - to
be resubmitted).
Your inactivity with regards to these models is now reaching a critical state and their absence is also
preventing other Subcontractors from proceeding with their coordination models and consequently
their onsite works. This situation has seen little improvement despite the recurrent notices, repeated
calls and email reminders to propose a recovery plan for the above delays.
As we have done previously, we reserve our rights to deploy additional BIM resources to aid you in
recovering the long-overdue BIM models, taking into consideration that the additional resources shall
work in tandem with your team and you will be back-charged for these resources accordingly. Be
reminded that this this will not alleviate you from your responsibility towards providing necessary
resources to recover from the poor status of progress of the models submission, particularly those that
are still unresolved to date and/or require resubmission.

A.4) Submittal and Approval of Mock-ups
Our records indicate that as of 30th November 2018, 12 out of the specified 36 mock-ups remain
incomplete (see attachment 3). Given that these mock-ups and their approval are precursors to the
undertaking of the actual site construction of the permanent fixtures - you are therefore placing the
project at risk by delaying these works. Therefore, we instruct you to assign an accountable and
responsible team to liaise with our construction department to foresee the resolution of any mock-up
residual issues. Given this state, we are left with no other option but to reserve our right to back charge
any costs, losses or expenses that may be attributed to this long overdue and critically delayed project
deliverable.

B. Delays to Work Orders and Fabrication
B.1 Work Orders
According to our records there are still a significant number of missing and/or corrective work orders
pending which require immediate issuance (see attachment 4).

Glass Work Orders
As of 30th November there still remains 1923sqm of glass orders pending issuance. This is made up of
1658sqm required for gatehouses and 264sqm for the CP area; these delays are now causing significant
disruption to other Subcontractors in the completion of their works and having a detrimental impact in
the completion of the project in its entirety.
Our engineering team has also raised their significant concerns surrounding the GRR Work Orders for
the replacement of glass which has been damaged, lost and/or misplaced. We therefore instruct you to
take immediate action in the identification and scheduling of all outstanding material requirements
required to complete the project.
Other Work Orders
Following the recent progress meetings and site visits with your management team, it is evident that
there still remains a confusion over the location and order status of work orders concerning first and
third fix items (equipment bands etc). We therefore request you to submit a full schedule of these items
listing each work package and the current status of these items. This schedule should detail the current
status, inclusive of quantities, order dates and expected delivery.

B.2 Material order, Fabrication and Delivery
Our records show that there are still significant quantities of glass awaiting delivery. Out of the 54,215
pcs of glass only 46,360 pcs (86%) have been delivered which is extremely disconcerting considering the
current stage of the project and impending milestones as per your level 3 Programme.
The remaining 7,855 pcs of glass yet to be delivered can be classified into the following statuses:
•
•
•
•
•

Under Production – 21.49%
Dispatched – 9.66%
Located at the AGC Factory (Bonding/Painting etc) – 52.81%
No Work Order issued – 5.87%
GRR with no work order issued – 10.17%

Our records (see attachment XX) highlights the poor performance demonstrated by your glass suppliers
in particular, between the months of August and November 2018.
Golden Glass
In this period Golden Glass dispatched total 1119sqm of glass (only) which puts their monthly output
average at 280sqm. We also note that Golden Glass achieved less than 100sqm of dispatched glass in 3
out of the previous 4 months.
AVIC
In this period AVIC dispatched a total of 701sqm of glass (only), which makes their monthly average
175sqm. Similarly to Golden Glass, AVIC achieved less than 100sqm of dispatched glass in 3 out of the 4
previous months.
CSG

CSG received only 562sqm of work orders; however they have taken an average of 196 days to deliver
each order.
The above provides an indication of glass status; however, you are instructed to provide detailed
schedules of all outstanding materials as highlighted above in section B1. For example, and as you are
well aware, the installation of the equipment bands is critical to the completion of the MEP works
packages, any further delays will significantly impact upon the Cause & Effect stage of the project.
The Engineer further reiterates our concerns with regards to the management of the fabrication and
delivery processes (see enclosed letter XX – dated 4th December 2018), whereby the Engineer cites the
late discovery of incorrectly sized glass and broken/misplaced units as a major risk to the project. Your
failure to manage this process is unacceptable – remedial measures to prevent future occurrence
regarding the above should be clearly detailed in your forthcoming Action Plan. Your immediate
response addressing all of the issues stated in the mentioned Engineer’s is required.

C. AGC's Failure to Plan the works and report Status
Our records indicate that you are failing to provide us with the detailed procurement and installation
schedule (to be updated on a weekly basis) as agreed in the Memorandum of Understanding (3). As
agreed, the plan should detail how you plan to achieve the agreed target package dates. As highlighted
above, we instruct you to provide us with a detailed mitigation plan demonstrating proposed measures
to overcome any loss of progress.
Your failure to provide accurate and comprehensive reports prevents us from understanding the current
status of works, jeopardizing our ability to pursue our rights to Claims and prevents any tangible
assessment of delays. In addition, the applicable claims method for Time Impact Analysis (Clause 27.2) is
dependent in its mechanics on the provision of accurate monthly updates.
Accordingly, we notify you that we reserve our rights to remove all future payments related to planning
and progress monitoring from your on-account payments until you demonstrate an improvement in this
regard (i.e. planning and progress reporting).

D. On Site Construction and Installation Delays
As you are well aware, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by you in the above
correspondence (3) details integral package target dates for completion which you have either failed
and/or failing to achieve. The progress statuses listed below demonstrates the approximate % of glass
installed in each area.
INSERT ORKUN FIGURE HERE
Area – MOU Date – Current % of installed glass
As is clearly evident from the above, you are failing to achieve the agreed package target dates. For
example, Pier 4 was due for completion by XX but as of today’s date you have only achieved X% of the
total installation. Furthermore, and of greater concern is that the above figures indicate installed glass

and do not take into consideration any alignment works or snagging. Section E will further highlight the
importance of incorporating a structured WIR approval process into your mitigation plan.
Your deployment of mitigation measures, such as those suggested and listed in the first page of this
notice is imperative to recover from the above-mentioned status and achieve compliance with your
contractual obligations. Please be reminded that the signed MoU clearly states that you will be liable for
all costs related to the default associated with missed target dates and we will reserve our right to
recover these costs from you accordingly.

E. WIR Completion Delays and Progress
According to our current records you are failing to achieve a reasonable rate of progress in regards to
the completion of WIR’s. This is a major concern due to the extent of the outstanding WIR’s and those
that are currently reaching Code 2 status. There are approximately 1000nr WIR’s to be submitted in
relation to your works package; to date you have only submitted 101nr (10%), of which only 24nr have
reached Code 2 status (2%).
Your inability to manage the above process in a structured and comprehensive manner is extremely
disconcerting. The above has also been noted by the Engineer in recent progress meetings and further
stressed in their enclosed correspondence. We therefore request that your mitigation plan details a
clear strategy on how the attainment of Code 2’s will be achieved in line with programme requirements.

F. Failure to substantiate entitlement for claims and variations
Further to our previous correspondence and meetings on site you have consistently failed to submit
commercial documentation in line with your contractual obligations. Moreover, the requirement as set
out in the MoU clearly states you shall support us with regards to substantiating our claims for time or
cost impacts against the Employer and/or any other Subcontractor. Despite assurances that you would
provide support in this regard, we are yet to see an improvement in the quantity and quality of the
submissions.
To date we have received a total of 10nr RFVO submissions of which 6nr are still under assessment as
we require further substantiation. According to our records there are 48nr outstanding RFVO’s awaiting
submission with a further 9nr for the Glass Wall Lining awaiting re-submission in the required RFVO
submission format.
Our variations team state that the quality of your submissions must be improved in order for these to be
assessed. Please ensure your submissions comply with our RFVO procedure, inclusive of all required
substantiation (quantification sheets, marked- drawings, 3nr quotations for new rates etc.) to ensure no
further delays are incurred as a result of your failure to comply with your contractual obligations.
We reiterate once again that the absence of supporting particulars and substantiation is a failure of your
Subcontract obligations and remind you of your contractual obligations in this regard pursuant to
subcontract clauses 10.3.3(c) [Contractor’s Claims], 27.1.3, 27.1.4 [Subcontractor’s Claims], and other
relevant clauses.

In summary, from the information provided above we are issuing this notice pursuant to Subcontract
Clauses 12.11 [Cooperation], 16.6 [Delay Damages], 22.1 [Notice to Correct] for the above referenced
delays. We reiterate that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Subcontractors as a result of the above shall be recovered from you in accordance with the
Subcontract clauses 10.3, and 16.6.1 in addition to other relevant Subcontract Clauses.
This is for your information and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
