Subject:Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 – September 2019 Activity Payments
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter (1), in which you aver we have not achieved the identified Activity Payments
Milestones for the critical path activities [per SAA8 – Appendix D] for the month of September 2019.

We strongly refute your allegation and refer you to the numerous delay events which have prevented
and continue to prevented achievement of various milestones. Such events are well documented and
not only does this include without limitation, the various excusable delaying events encapsulated within
our ‘TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8’ and ‘TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8’ submitted via our letter refs (2) and (3), but
within the numerous delay notices that continue to be raised on this Project.
As you are aware, TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8 not only supports entitlement to an extension of time of 320
calendar days from 31 October 2019 until 15 September 2020 to Milestone MS09C for example, but also
utilised a cut-off date of 1 August 2019. Since then, not only do many of the delaying events analysed
therein have a continuing effect on Milestone MS09C for example, but the grounds for entitlement to
further extensions to Milestone MS09C are continuing also. This is evidenced by the fact that since 1
August 2019, we have been compelled to raise a further 50 notices of delays. These have been raised as
a consequence of various acts of prevention on the part of the Employer, the Employer’s Personnel, the
Consultants or Other Contractors, not to mention the introduction of further changes to the Works ‘by
stealth’ by the Employer’s Design Consultant via his response to various RFIs. The detail contained in
our notices is testament to this evidence of fact.
Your reference to a schedule of dates comparing the milestone dates as set out in SAA8 against your
own assessment fails to take cognizance of actual events and the root cause of delays. You have ignored
or elected to overlook multiple correspondences issued in refutation of your purported delay notices
against individual milestones as well as the multiple Post-SAA8 delay notices. You have also failed to
take cognisance of both of the Post-SAA8 TIAs issued to date. While we acknowledge you have replied
to TIA No. 1 – SAA8, we are appreciably aggrieved that despite us issuing you with a comprehensive
reply to your response to TIA No. 1 – SAA8 by way of our letter (4), in your response (5), you incorrectly
assert that we have not addressed the issues raised by you regarding purported deficiencies in our
claim. We also note that you have yet to respond to TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8.
For the record, we would also confirm that we are currently preparing our post SAA8 TIA No.3, which
will be submitted to you in due course for your consideration. Meanwhile, for various reasons set out
above, we will continue to defend our rights and entitlements under SAA8 and the Contract.
Yours faithfully,
