Subject: Recovery of Overhead, Profit and Attendance due to the Omission of Defined
Provisional Sum for Hotel Fit Out
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference (1) rejecting our claim for damages for breach of contract
for instructing the omission of works for the purposes of giving that work to another contractor(s). As
we have previously explained, it is considered a breach of contract for the Engineer to omit works to
give to other contractors. (See references 2 and 5.) All of the counter arguments that you have made to
date fail as a matter of law.
First, you attempt to excuse your conduct by referring to the definition of "Variation" in Clause 1.1, i.e.,
that a Variation includes "a) the addition, omission or substitution of any work or any part thereof". You
read this provision as entitling the Engineer to omit works, for whatever, without consequence. This is
wrong.
Every single commentary, and every court that has interpreted such language, has come to the
conclusion that "a provision giving the owner or his [engineer] a power to make omissions only
contemplates genuine omissions, that is, works which it is intended should not be carried out at a11".1
For example, in Carr v JA Berriman Pty Ltd, the contract contained a clause saying that: "The Architect
may in his absolute discretion, and from to time, issue .... written instructions or written directions ... in
regard to the ... omission ... of any work."'2 In holding that it was a breach of contract for the architect
to invoke this clause to omit works to give to other contractors, the High Court in Australia reasoned:3
The clause is a common and useful clause, the obvious purpose of which - so far as it is relevant to the
present case - is to enable the architect to direct additions to, or substitutions in, or omissions from, the
building as planned, which may turn out, in his opinion, to be desirable in the course of the performance
of the contract. The words quoted from it would authorise the architect (doubtless within certain limits,
which were discussed in R v Peto (1826) 1 Y & J 37; 48 E.R. 577 to direct that particular items of work
included in the plans and specifications shall not be carried out. But they do not, in my opinion,
authorise him to say that particular items so included shall be carried out not by the builder within
whom the contract is made but by some other builder or contractor. The words used do not, in their
natural meaning, extend so far, and a power in the architect to hand over at will any part of the contract
to another contractor would be a most unreasonable power, which very clear words would be required
to confer. (Emphasis added.) Similarly, in Gallagher v. Hirsh,4 the contract provided that: "Should the
[employer] at any time during the progress of the said building request any alteration, deviation,
additions or omissions from the said contract he shall be at liberty to do so,[ ... ]." In finding that the
employer breached the contract in omitting this work to award to another contractor, the Appellate
Division in New York State held that:
The words are, 'additions or omissions from the said contract,' evidently meaning additions t o or
omissions from the work to be done under said contract, which clearly negatives the idea that they were
intended to mean that the [employer] should have
the right to omit the work from the plaintiff's contract, in order to give the contract
to another to do the same thing. (Emphasis added.)
Thus, established law clearly holds that Clause 1.1 cannot be invoked to support the Engineer's position.

Indeed, this body of law is explicitly acknowledged in COC Clause 22.2.4, which the Engineer has refused
to
consider or address. (See reference 5 wherein the Contractor explained the significance of this
provision.)
As we have previously explained, Clause 22.2.4 would have been unnecessary if the Contract provided
the
Engineer the right to omit works to give to other contractors. It further demonstrates that the Parties
knew
how to expressly provide the Employer this right when they intended to do so. Indeed, if the Employer
could
omit works for whatever reason, Clause 22.2.4's grant of authority to omit works for cause would be
entirely
redundant for the authority already conferred under Clause 1.1. Even more, the Engineer could avoid
the
Contractor's procedural protections afforded by Clause 22.2.2 by instructing a simple omission under
Clause
1.1. Thus, the Engineer's interpretation could not have been what the Parties intended .
Second, the Engineer cl aims that the definition of "Defined Provisional Sum" supports its position. The
Contract defines "Defined Provisional Sum" in Clause 1.1 to mean "a sum included in the Contract Price
...
for the execution of any part of the Works ... which sum may be used, in whole or in part, to not at all,
on
the instructions of the Engineer." As you have previously stated, this too means that the Engineer can
omit
such works, for whatever, without consequence.
The authorities are again in agreement that this language does not permit the Engineer to omit Defined
Provisional Sums in order to award that work to other contractors. To the contrary:
Provisional sum work has been treated as definitive and not contingent, so that its
omission under a power to vary, if intended to have the work done by another
Contractor, has been held to be outside the power and in breach of contract entitling
the Contractor to damages.5
For example, in Hydro Holdings, the contract included a provisional sum for a nominated subcontractor
but
the employer directly awarded the subcontract to another contractor. In holding that the employer's
omission of provisional sum work to reallocate to another contractor constituted a breach of contract,
the
Court held that: Under the terms of most contracts, an employer who exercises a power to omit work
must genuinely require the work not to be done at all, and cannot exercise such a
power with a view to having the work carried out by someone else.5
Similarly, in Amec Building Limited v Cadmus Investments Co Limited, the employer omitted work
relating to
a provisional sum and later awarded it to a third party. The court noted that the contract provided the
architect "the power ... in his sole discretion to withdraw any work from provisional sums for whatever
reason if he considers it in the best interests of the contract or the employer so to do." Despite this, the
court affirmed the award of lost profits for the omission of provisional sum work to give to another
contractor .7
It is therefore resoundingly clear that the Engineer's interpretation of the term "Defined Provisional
Sum"

does not support the Engineer's position.
Last, the Engineer attempts to rely upon BOQ, Schedule 6, Preamble 12 which states that "[t]he
Contractor
shall not be entitled to payment for profit and overheads on the value of any omitted works." First, this
clause is inapplicable because the Contractor is seeking damages for a breach of contract and not for an
omissions. As Emden's Commentary notes, "if an omission takes away work in order to have it carried
out by
another contractor, it seems unlikely this will be a variation, but will be a breach of contract."8 As such,
this
clause is not relevant and does not exculpate the Employer from paying the Contractor what is due as a
matter of law. In any event, for the same reasons explained above, the words "omission" within
Preamble
12 does not extend to this scenario and, thus, Preamble 12 is simply not relevant.
***
The Engineer's letter is not only devoid of legal support, it is refuted by all legal sources that have
addressed
the language that the Engineer invokes to support its position.
Given this, the Contractor requests a meeting to discuss a path forward in resolving this dispute, and the
Contractor's related claim stated in Reference 5.
Yours faithfully,
