
Subject : New Year Holiday
Dear Sir,
On the occasion of New Year's Day, please be informed that the MTB Main Office will be closed on
Wednesday, 01st January 2020. All office staff will resume duty on Thursday, 02"d January 2020.
Due to criticality in nature of the work, selected site staff and subcontractors' const ruction staff will
be working during the holiday as normal.
The TCAJV Management takes this opportunity to wish you all a "Happy New Year".
Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0193
Delays to the Processing of Re-Entry Permit / NOCs and Activities of Others Affecting Finalisation of
Snagging, De-Snagging and T&C Activities
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described in
Annex A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays to the processing of re-entry permit / NOCs and
activities of others affecting finalisation of snagging, de-snagging and T&C activities.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Specifically we urge you to review and respond to Contractor’s Material submittals without further
undue delay. Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
In the period between 25 December 2019 and 12 January 2020, we submitted various Re-Entry Permits /
NOCs, requesting permission to allow us to complete various Works, such as snagging, des-snagging and
testing and commissioning activities. These Re-Entry Permits / NOCs include the following 13 nos. of
RDD Form 15s set out and summarised in Table 1 below:
Table 1
Sr. No. NOC No.
Rev
Unit / Area
Description
Date Request Issued
[TCA JV to CMA]
Response Due Response Received
Reply Overdue By
[calendar days]
1
RDD-527
2
2082 HVAC testing 25-Dec-19
28-Dec-19
17 days

2

RDD-669
1
2033 Fire Alarm T&C 25-Dec-19
28-Dec-19
17 days
0 days
The information recorded in Table 1 shows the NOC reference number, the revision, the description of
works and unit/area number, plus the date the request for an NOC was made, and when the response to
our request for access was due; the latter being based on a nominal three-day turn-around time. In
other words, approval is traditionally granted within three (3) days from our request being issued.
However, Table 1 further records that at the cut-off date associated with preparation of this E-Notice
0193 (i.e. 14 January 2020), none of the NOCs have been responded to. Therefore, this demonstrates
that for all of the 13 NOCs requests, the responses are exceeding and by all accounts are continuing to
exceed the three day turn-around response time by periods of upwards of 17 calendar days late.
This is unacceptable, particularly at this stage of the Project. We have already issued various reminders
to you by way of our e-mails dated 6, 12 and 14 January 2020 (copies attached), and similarly, have
notified you of delays to other Re-Entry Permits / NOCs vide our E-Notice Nos. 0170 and 0189; but
these have seemingly been overlooked and the status of the overdue NOC requests remain.
The purpose of this E-notice is two-fold: Firstly, we wish to notify you of appreciable concerns we have
in relation to the NOC process, specifically a failure on your to process our requests for re-entry
promptly and issue the approved NOCs in an timely manner, and Secondly the invariable impact that
this failure has on our ability to complete the snagging, des-snagging and testing and commissioning
activities, amongst other things; and accordingly urge you to ensure that the responsible third-party (i.e.
Employer’s Tenants) responds to the requested NOC issuance in a prompt and timely manner.
Potential Impact:
Acts of prevention such as these will at this stage of the Works, prevent us from obtaining the Building
Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical in us achieving completion of Milestone MS09B.
Consequently, the more we are prevented from working due to the combined effects of the above, the
more likely this will prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works;
specifically, we urge you assist with the prompt processing of our Re-Entry Permits allowing us access as
well as urging the Employer’s Other Contractor to work with us so as not to delay our Works. Kindly
ensure that such matters are resolved immediately from the date of receipt of this Notice.
Yours faithfully,
