Subject: Alleged Delay in OC/MCR UPS rooms due to Contractor and Other Trades
Dear Sir;
We acknowledge receipt of the above referenced letter and comment as follows:
Again we find ourselves having to reply to what can only be described as a nonsensical, unnecessary and
erroneous piece of correspondence.
Nothing in this letter substantiates any delays on the project and serves only to waste the time and
resources of not only the staff ofTCAJV but also ANEL's.
Following receipt of this letter TCAJV Area Construction Manager Sinan Sezer and representatives from
ANEL and PCEJV walked the areas mentioned within your letter, where it was found that ANEL are
experiencing no such hold ups as described within your spurious letter. Our Area Construction Manager
then had to take time from his busy schedule to provide comments against the fallacious photos (most
of which are pointless and show nothing of value), These comments are attached to this letter
(Appendix 1). It has become apparent in the recently received correspondence that a decision to issue
letters in quantity rather than quality and such frivolity will not be tolerated. Any Delay Notices from
ANEL must include the following (but not limited to) information before the delay claim will be
considered, with the same in strict accordance with clause 16.5 [Extension of Time for Subcontract
Completion]
1. Detailed description of the change/delay and the quantities related (if any)
2. Reference to the relevant Activity reference on the latest applicable programme.
3. Estimated Duration of Delay and Cost Impact (If any)
4. Time Impact analysis performed to quantify the impact of delay with critical path.
5. Photos with commentary to substantiate the delays.
6. Related correspondence, drawings or specs applicable.
7. An updated delay register (this should capture all delays incurred).
8. Details of the mitigation measures taken adopted to overcome/minimise the Impact of delay.
If this information is not contained within the Notice then it shall be rejected until such delays can be
substantiated.

We trust this clarifies our position on the matter; however should you have any questions or discover
any relevant substantiation then we will be happy to investigate the matter further.
Yours faithfully,
