Subject:

Employer’s Related Variations / Exchange Rate

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject, we would like to draw your attention to our continuous technical
and financial support in an effort to complete the works without further delay. We also would like to
emphasize our directness once more and our willingness to be available to discuss any matter related to
the Works and resolve all issues in an amicable manner.
Kindly note that as of today, we have only received 3 No Variation Orders and the rest are pending with
the Engineer. The fact that the Engineer has not issued all Variation Orders for the Airport Counter
Package, has not hindered us in issuing Variation Orders to you in order to support you financially.

Moreover, despite the issuance of Variation Orders No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 from our side, we have not yet
received the signed agreement copies from you yet. You are well aware of the fact that the certification
and subsequently the payment of a Variation Order is subject to approval and signature from both
Parties.
In addition, please be informed that the Engineer has deducted MOS related to Variation Orders from
our account, which were previously approved. However, at that time as a gesture of goodwill we did not
pass on these deductions.
In the meantime, in the absence of the issuance of the pending Variation Orders from the Engineer and
with the genuine intention to assist you financially, we have been certifying and releasing on-account
payments to assist your cash flow. Consequently, we have been assisting you financially by certifying
more than what you have been actually applying for.
Therefore, with reference to our letter (1) above and numerous correspondences and emails between
the Parties (i.e. Contractor, Subcontractor, the Engineer and the Employer) we write to inform you that
the Exchange Rate cited in the Engineer’s Assessments for all RFVOs and consequently Variations Orders
is put forward as 4.30 AED/EUR by the Employer. If you would refer to the enclosed rate exchange graph
you would also agree that this is fair and reasonable based on the rate fluctuations of the concerned
period.
Please be informed that by utilizing an exchange rate of 4.95 AED/EUR for the RFVO’s submitted (RFVO 1114 Rev0 and RFVO - 1009) cannot be considered fair following the analysis of the exchange rate
history attached herewith. However, as per the attached schedule of rates and the attached graph, it is
evident that the exchange rate from October 2016 to date has not exceeded 4.60 AED/EUR and the
average for that period was 4.13 AED/EUR.
For the sake of clarity and in an effort to resolve this matter at once, we hereby provide a brief history of
events regarding the foregoing, as follows:
•
On 8 September 2014 you submitted your quotation reference CCM/TND/0714/010; exchange
rate on 8 September 2014 was 4.74 AED/EUR*;
•
The Subcontract Agreement was signed and agreed on 10 December 2014; exchange rate on 10
December 2014 was 4.57 AED/EUR*;
•
RFVO -1114 Rev0 was submitted on 12 October 2016; exchange rate on 12 October 2016 was
4.04 AED/EUR*; and
•
RFVO - 1009 was submitted on 27 April 2017; exchange rate on 27 April 2017 was 3.99
AED/EUR*.
In light of the above, we consider that the rate of 4.95 AED/EUR would be unreasonable and without a
basis for any of the parties of the Project. Therefore, we reiterate that we are of the opinion that the
endeavor of the Engineer to assess and evaluate your Variations has been done in a reasonable manner.
Kindly, be informed that the information provided herein is given on a "without prejudice" basis and is
not to be construed as a waiver of or a limitation to any of our rights under the Subcontract.

We are confident that you will find the above information correct and that you will proceed with due
diligence to complete the Works by the target completion date.
Yours faithfully
