
Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0101
Gatehouse GH49 – Damage to PCA Pit Due to Grouting Works by Others
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the same.
The Event(s):
At Annex A hereto we enclose a series of photographs showing damage to the Pre-Conditioned Air (PCA)
pit adjacent to Gatehouse GH49 taken on the morning of the 3 June 2019, which appears to be
attributable due to the effects of pressure grouting undertaken by the MTA Contractor (L&T) while
carrying out remedial works in an effort to alleviate the subsidence occurring on this Project.
The photographs indicates a large area adjacent to the PCA pit having been subjected to pressure
grouting and this appears to have caused undue stress/pressure around the pit causing the concrete to
buckle and shatter, or in other words, caused an upheave in pressure and “burst” the concrete.

We suggest that L&T expose the duct bank connection and HDPE pipe connections to this pit to ensure
that the integrity of the same has not been compromised by the movement of the pit.
This is an unforeseen event, is not of our doing or responsibility but is clearly at the risk of others, but
any remedial works necessary to address the upheaval and make good the concrete has the potential to
delay and disrupt the progress and completion of our Main Terminal Building (MTB) Works, and
constitute an act of prevention or breach of Contract on the part of the Employer’s Other Contractor.
While writing wish to draw your attention to the fact that since the photographs included at Annex A
were taken, L&T have broken out the PQC slab immediately adjacent the PCA pit to Gatehouse GH06
[the photos attached at Annex B refers]. Therefore, if this area is to be grouted also, we request that
you inform us as to what measures they have/will put in place to avoid any potential reoccurrence.
Potential Impact:
Acts of prevention such as those outlined above, will at this stage of the Works, prevent us from
obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical is us achieving Milestone MS09B, and
if in the event matters such as these will continue, then the more likely these will invariably knock-on
and resultantly prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
