Subject: RE: OTIS's ongoing lack of performance- Follow up on Notice pursuant to Clause
Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Engineer's letter (1} dated 22 February 2018 which was
received by the Contractor on 28 February 2018 only. It appears that the Engineer 's letter (1) was
drafted in advance of the Engineer receiving Contractor's letter (2). We trust that the Engineer on
reviewing

Contractor's letter (2) will find the details of the mitigation measures put in place. Furthermore, in
addition to the mitigation measures stated in letter (2}, the Contractor has also increased the number of
escalator technicians and supervisors from 30 to 53 personnel at present.
The Contractor would further like to record that the mitigation measures put place are bearing positive
results. This is evidenced by the fact that in February 2018, the Contractor has successfully installed and
completed 14 elevators, which when compared to the total numbers installed and completed in
December 2017 and January 2018 respectively, translates to an increase of circa 350%. Additionally, the
Contractor plans to install and complete a further 12 elevators in March 2018, which is line with the
updated Rev 10.4 target Programme.
Furthermore, the LET/PBB in Pier 3 and Pier 4 are being prepared for cause and effect testing and
testing and commissioning. At present 21 travellators and 6 escalators are cleaned with all wiring works
completed, while a further 24 elevators have been tested in advance. The Contractor and its
Subcontractor currently have 6 teams working on the travellators, 7 teams working on the escalators
and a further 8 teams working on the elevators, all to ensure that Pier 3 and Pier 4 will be ready for
cause and effect testing as per the dates in the updated Rev 10.4 target Programme.
The Contractor once again assures all Parties that the Contractor will continue using all reasonable
endeavours to complete the Works by the accelerated target completion date.
Yours faithfully,
