Subject:

Euro exchange rate for CCM’s Variation Orders

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our numerous discussions regarding the
subject matter, we would like to notify you that there is an ongoing issue in regards to the agreement of
the exchange rate for the Variations Orders (VO’s) related to our Subcontractor M/S C.C.M Airport
Equipment ME LLC (CCM).
Kindly be informed that the mentioned Subcontractor is withholding the delivery and installation of
materials to the site until receipt of the corresponding VO’s, accordingly. We assure you that we have
been in continuous communication with the Subcontractor and the Engineer, taking all necessary
measures to avoid any delays and resolve this matter as soon as possible. We have also used our rights
derived from the Subcontract Agreement between us and the Subcontractor, instructing CCM to
proceed with the works without delay until issuance of the VO’s, but it has refused to do so. For this
reason, we kindly hereby notify you that your contribution in an effort to resolve this matter is required.
We would also like to refer to our previous discussions and meetings, wherein you have confirmed that
the rate to be used for the issuance of the aforesaid VO’s is at the exchange rate of 4.55 AED/€.
In light of the above, please be informed that at the time of writing this letter, we have not yet received
the VO’s from the Engineer which is subject to agreement of the exchange rate. Therefore, we kindly
request you to confirm our verbal agreement regarding the agreed exchange rate mentioned above and
liaise with the Engineer to expedite the issuance of the said VO’s as soon as practicable.
At this juncture, we reserve all of our rights derived under the Contract and inform you that we as the
Contractor, will not be held liable for any delays in regards to the issuance of the VO’s discussed herein
or any delays caused due to our Subcontractor’s refusal to proceed with the works as described above.

To conclude, we await the expeditious receipt of the aforementioned VO’s, to notify the Subcontractor
to proceed with its Contractual Obligation and complete the works.
Your immediate response on the matter is kindly required and will be highly appreciated.
Yours faithfully,
