
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Minutes of Meeting (Item 2.3) under reference 1) whereby the Engineer's
Assistant asserts that the location of the MEP rooms in the subway entry shelters is not ABM compliant.

The Contractor refutes the Engineer's Assistant's assertion and refers the Engineer's Assistant to the
provisions of ABM 1 and ABM 2 that allow for modular entry shelters with MEP modules as part of the
Urban Integration Strategy, further detailed In the ABM 3 as per the following non-exhaustive list of
references to the location of the MEP plant rooms in the subway entry shelters above ground:

a.
Chapter G Urban Elements, item G 3.1.2.a Design Strategy Guidelines for small entrance shelters
(page 201);
b.
Chapter G Urban Elements, item G 3.1.2.b Geometry Guidelines for small entrance shelters
(page 202)
c.
Chapter G Urban Elements, item G 3.1.2.d Growth Strategy Guidelines for small entrance
shelters (page 211 and page 212)

In this respect, the location of the MEP rooms in the entry shelters at ground level is compliant with the
Architectural Branding Manual.

In addition, the Engineer's Assistant is reminded that the MEP plant rooms in the entry shelters at
ground level are included in the Contractor's DD1 design submissions which were DVE certified and
received NOWC from the Engineer's Assistant with no comments on this particular subject.

Further to the above, it is evident that the proposed relocation of the MEP rooms from the entrance
shelters at ground level to the underground (except from a shaft to accommodate smoke extract, air
intake and air exhaust) is a departure from the Contractor's ABM compliant design.

Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor proactively addressed the Engineer's Assistant's request to
reduce the subway entry shelters' footprint and proposed such alternative solutions during the
Workshop on Entrance shelters & Subways- Architectural & MEP strategy held on 26 October 2016
(Minutes of Meeting reference M006-LBE-ENG-MOM-00694 ).

It appears that the Contractor's proposed solution for the relocation of the MEP plant rooms from the
entrance shelters at ground level to the underground subway (except from a shaft to accommodate
smoke extract, air intake and air exhaust) was accepted in principle by the Employer and the Engineer's
Assistant in the Subways and Entrance Footprints meeting held on 10 December 2015.

In the event that the above change is required to be incorporated in the design, the Contractor hereby
kindly requests the Engineer's Assistant to obtain the Employer's written confirmation of its agreement
to implement the change and instruct accordingly in order to minimize abortive design.

This change constitutes a Variation and upon receipt of the Engineer's instruction, the Contractor shall
proceed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13 [Variations and Adjustments] of Volume 3 Conditions of Contract.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor informs the Engineer's Assistant that the design is
progressing with the MEP plant rooms in the subway entry shelters at ground level in compliance with
the provisions of the Architectural Branding Manual, unless instructed otherwise.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
