1.

General Comments for Prolongation Costs
1.1. Cost
(a) An amount claimed as Cost must fall within the ambit of the definition of Cost that is set down in
Sub-Clause 1.1 of the General Conditions of Subcontract; this provides that Cost must be reasonably
incurred and excludes any profit, Disallowed Costs and expenditure incurred as a consequence of any
default on the part of the Subcontractor. Disallowed Costs is also defined in Sub-Clause 1.1 and
includes any costs arising out of or in connection with defects, certain sub-subcontractor cost etc.

(b) Cost must be actual and demonstrable expenditure incurred in order to place the claiming party
back in the same financial position it would otherwise have been in but for the circumstance(s) giving
rise to the claim. The claiming party is required to establish, as a matter of fact, that it has incurred
additional costs directly as a result of the matter(s) complained of. In this regard the following three
questions / limbs are relevant:
(i) To what extent are the amounts claimed attributable to the matters relied on? Would
the amounts claimed have been incurred in any event (albeit earlier or later than when
actually incurred)? Are the amounts claimed one-off (specific to a particular task); time
related (specific to a period of time); or volume related (specific to physical work)?
(ii) Have the costs claimed been incurred? Can the amounts claimed be traced back to the
accounting system for the project and payment evidenced?
(iii) Are the costs claimed reasonable? Could the expenditure incurred reasonably have been
avoided? Is there any duplication or excessive waste, was supervision, control etc. adequate?
Was the procurement process appropriate and the contract terms reasonable and have the
amounts claimed been calculated and paid in accordance with the appropriate terms of the
relevant contract?
(c) Where the factual information made available is insufficient to fully answer the three questions, it
cannot be established whether, as a matter of fact, the claiming party has incurred additional costs
directly as a result of the matter(s) complained of. It is for the Subcontractor to discharge the burden
of proof that a cost has been incurred or will be incurred, and that any such cost is a consequence of
the matters relied upon.
(d) Forecast cost is an estimate of Cost for a period of time in the future which may or may not be
incurred. Whilst useful for forecasting / budgeting purposes therefore, forecast cost cannot form part
of any assessment until such time as the Cost is actualised. Where the period of time has already
passed, Cost should be actualised and substantiated.
1.2. Resources
(a) Resources may be categorised as either ‘Time’ or ‘Activity’ (Task) related. Typically the
allowances for time-related resources are included in the initial Subcontract Price via the General
Items (Preliminaries) and allowances for activity-related resources are included in the unit rates for
work items.
(b) When the time for completion is extended, then it is only the time-related resources affected by the
extension that may be compensated via a Prolongation Cost Claim. This would ordinarily be the time
related resources that are generally required for the duration of the Project (‘Core’ resources) but may
also include time related resources attached to a particular location or element of the Subcontract
Works e.g. Pier 4 (‘Location’ resources) if the delay event impacts the critical path of the Works
related to the Location.
(c) By contrast, if activities are prolonged due to events impacting productivity, then the additional cost
of activity-related resources may be sought via a Disruption Claim. Activity-related resources may
not be included in a Prolongation Cost Claim.
(d) Whether or not a time-related resource is categorised as Core or Location is a matter of fact for which
evidence is required. In this regard, the consistency of resource presence over the Project is
informative. Costs incurred consistently are potentially time-related costs, while costs incurred in
isolated or discrete periods of time are more likely to be location and/or activity related.

(e) Resources attached to offsite facilities (generally either an office or a factory) are not ordinarily
claimable as time-related Core and instead are regarded as an overhead cost; a very rare exception to
this may be where it is evidenced that the offsite facility was established and is maintained and
operated solely for the Project.
1.3. Evidence
(a) Provide documents identifying the subcontractor and the Project, including:
(i) Agreements / Contracts (and any amendments thereto);
(ii) Delivery Tickets (Plant, Equipment, Vehicles, Fuel);
(iii) Signed Timesheets recording hours worked per day and tasks undertaken;
(iv) Consumption Reports (Fuel);
(v) Persons to whom the resource is provided (Transportation and Accommodation);
(vi) Invoices;
(vii) Accounting Records / Ledgers;
(viii)
Payslips (Staff);
(ix) Proof of Payment / Receipts / Bank Transaction Records;

1.4. Common Observations
(a) Resources that are most likely Location and/or Activity related (and hence ordinarily not directly
affected by events causing a delay to the critical path Works) are to be excluded from the Prolongation
Cost Claim e.g.
(i) Staff
a.
b.
c.

Labour, Foremen, Supervisors - principally Activity-related;
Engineering (Design & BIM) – principally Activity related
Site Engineers, Project Engineers, Procurement, QHSE - principally Location or
Activity-related.

(ii) Plant and Machinery (&Vehicles)
a. Tipper trucks / excavators / dumper trucks / wheel loaders / backhoe loaders / Mobile
Scaffold – principally Activity-related;
b. Cranage / Man lifts / Scissor lifts / Scaffolding - principally Location and/or Activity –
related’ and
c. Fuel (other than that consumed by Time-related resources)
d. Rates for owned PM&V to be supported by evidence of the actual purchase cost in
conjunction with the appropriate entry in the cost accounting system and the depreciation
policy.
(iii) Accommodation, Food & Transportation
a. Exclude that provided to Location and/or Activity-related personnel
(b) Bonds & Insurances
(i) Exclude insurances procured on a corporate rather than project specific basis;
(ii) The Cost of bonds and insurances is typically incurred annually and must accordingly be
distributed evenly over the relevant period.
(iii) Advance Payment Bonds: the bond repayment, amount of the bond and hence Cost is also
Activity related;
(c) Interest / Financing Costs

(i) Subcontractors to evidence their general or project specific financial arrangements, and how any
additional interest / financing costs have been incurred as a consequence of the prolongation.
Claims for interest / financing charges based on a theoretical calculation adopting a hypothetical
interest rate do not evidence any liability for a cost incurred and will not be accepted

(d) Head Office Overheads
(i) Any claim for "unabsorbed" overheads / loss of opportunity must evidence that resources were
prevented from earning a contribution to overheads from other projects (tendering opportunities
turned down or lost as a consequence of resources being retained on this project).
(ii) Any claim for "additional overheads" must identify the actual additional resources utilised or the
longer period that contemplated resources were dedicated to the project; also that the additional
resources / longer period of deployment was outside the reasonable contemplation of the
Subcontractor when the Subcontract was entered into and that the costs would not have been
incurred in any event.
(iii) In the absence of actual cost information, the use of an uplift percentage substantiated by audited
financial accounts may be appropriate.
(iv) The value of overheads claimed / recovered through variations and/or other claims to be credited.

Yours faithfully,
