
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0259
Late and Unreasonable Comments by the Employer’s Commissioning Consultant (CxA) annotated on
ATPs during Water Heater Commissioning Inspections
Dear Sir
Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview

The matters described in Annex A concern potential delays due to unreasonable comments made by the
Employer’s Commissioning Consultant (CxA) on Acceptance Test Procedures (ATP) ATP-49096 and ATP49153, during the water Heater Commissioning Inspections undertaken between 15 and 18 March 2020.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Introduction
We write to notify you of appreciable concerns we have in relation to unreasonable comments
annotated on Acceptance Test Procedures (ATP) Refs: ATP-49096 and ATP-49153 by the Employer’s
Commissioning Consultant (CxA), pertaining to the Water Heating Commissioning Works (refer to Figure
1 below and Annex B hereto) during the inspections undertaken by CxA between 15 March 2020 and 18
March 2020.
Figure 1 – Comments Annotated Upon ATP-49096 and ATP-49153
By CxA during inspections undertaken between 15 and 18 March 2020

With respect to CxA’s comments “how [is] the ‘anti-scald’ protection … being implemented?” and “Is
the anti-scald device integral to the TMV [Thermostatic Mixing Valve] or the water heater?”, we remind
you that MS/0401/P/0059 Rev. 03 (‘Sanitary ware for ablution faucets and shower’) was previously
approved Status Code 2 by you in circa five years ago on 15 April 2015. Notably, the Technical
Compliance Sheet attached thereto clearly describes the shower faucets MEP-10 & 30 [specified by the
Employer] to be “infra-red controlled single outlet for pre-mixed water supply” and include a “Single
handed thermostatic and pressure balance valve” and “include hot and cold water indicators” as per EI213B (refer Figure 2).
Figure 2
We further record the previous comment that the “item is sensor operated and supplied with pre-mixed
water” and that an ‘Anti-scald device is not part of this submittal”. In which respect, we wish to remind
you also that Paragraph 2.2Af of Specification Section 224000 (Plumbing Fixtures) was amended by you
in order to accord to MS/0401/P/0059 Rev. 00 and now reads as follows (refer to Figure 3 below).
Figure 3
Therefore, while an anti-scald device for the shower faucets (MEP10 & 30) was originally required, as
per Specification Section 224000 (Plumbing Fixtures), it was clear from the amendments made by you
thereto, that this requirement fell away and was no longer required given that, as per the express
reference to MS/0401/P/0059 Rev. 03 [approved by you], the product [faucet] was to operate with
mixed water.

As per the Plumbing Fixtures Specification Section 224000, we also need to provide a TMV (Temperature
Mixing Valve) compliant with ASSE 1016 (ASSE 1016 TMV is always utilized near the source of hot
water) and shower mixing valves compliant with ASSE 1017. As explained above, the proposed and
approved shower system (MEP-10 & 30) effectively eliminated the requirement to install an anti-scald
system.
For the sake of clarity, we note that an anti-scald system is essentially used only when there is a supply
of hot and cold water separately to a source, in this case a shower faucet. Therefore, if for any reason
there is only hot water available in the system, the anti-scald device will close the valve and will not
deliver hot water to the source, i.e. the shower, preventing scalding to a person. For all intents, this
process and the system utilised is essentially ASSE compliant. However, in the instant case, the shower
faucet is only receiving pre-mixed water and consequently, there is no direct hot water supply to the
showers in our system, meaning that the water will reach the source (i.e. shower) pre-mixed with an
already regulated temperature. This is established by mixing hot and cold water near the source with
the TMV installed.
For reference, we have reproduced the ASSE Guidelines which explain the ASSE standards and codes
mentioned above for the temperature control devices in domestic hot water systems (see Figure 4
below).
Figure 4
In light of the foregoing, it is evidently clear that we complied with the Contract requirements in every
respect and installed an infrared controlled single outlet for pre-mixed water supply in accordance with
MS/0401/P/0059 Rev. 03 approved Status Code 2 by you. It is clear therefore that the installed system is
fit for the purpose intended and is in line with the ASSE which also forms part of the Specification /
Contract.
We note also that the system was designed by the Employer’s Design Consultant. Consequently, we
accept no liability or responsibility for any inconsistencies in the Design; neither do we accept any
responsibility for overcoming any inconsistencies in the Design; this remains with the Employer’s Design
Consultant.
In summary, the Plumbing Fixtures Specification was changed by you to accord to MS/0401/P/0059 Rev.
03 which was approved by you. Hence the system has been approved to include a pre-mixing valve
instead of anti-scald system. Moreover, the system is in line with the ASSE codes and guidelines.
In view of the facts presented above, it is clear that given the approved Material Submittal has been in
existence for five years, and the works completed and signed off by you through the WIR process, CxA’s
comments annotated on ATP-49096 and ATP-49153 are not only unreasonable but totally unacceptable.
Given the critical stage the Project is currently at, then any delay to the Water Heating Commissioning
Works will invariably delay the completion and approval of the Water Heating System and associated
works and will impact on associated inspections, thereby invariably delaying the Time for Completion.
Given the dependency that our testing and commissioning has on CxA’s review of the ATPs we urge you
to take immediate action as necessary including involving the Employer, to insist that CxA immediately
clears and/or withdraws the comments to avoid any further delays. Please note that any delays incurred
to date or that may be incurred by us as a result of the above, shall be at your and/or the Employer’s
risk.
Meanwhile, the various delays and act(s) of prevention outlined herein, is delaying and disrupting the
completion of our testing and commissioning. This will invariably knock on and impact our ability to
achieve Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
