Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0190
Additional Fire Life Safety Devices requested by the House of Expertise – Request for Engineer’s
Instruction (EI) / Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays due to the requirement for additional Fire Life Safety (FLS) Devices requested by
the Employer’s House of Expertise which require a valid EI and VO in order for us to proceed.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event

We refer to recent receipt of commented responses associated with the provision of additional Fire Life
Safety (FLS) devices (e.g. Smoke Detectors, Strobe Lights, Speakers, Manual Call Points, Exit and
Emergency Lights etc.), being introduced into the Works either by way of comments on our Shop
Drawings and/or during meetings / site inspections with/by the Employer’s House of Expertise (HOE) as
well as being introduced via the snagging process; that we hasten to add, are not currently shown on IFC
Drawings, nor have they been previously subject to Briefing Packs/Engineer’s Instructions
The additional FLS devices required to be integrated into the Works are reflected in the schedule
attached at Annex B hereto and summarised in Table 1 below. This records the reference number of the
Inspections/comments (i.e. MCI, snag-inspections and comments made on a Shop Drawing), the
corresponding system affected, the total number of additional FLS devices (i.e. 16 Additional devices)
and level and area where the additional devices are required. The information recorded in Table 1
reflects the position as at 6 January 2020. As there are ongoing inspections at the time of writing, there
is every possibility there might be additional comments and hence additional FLS devices.
Table 1 – Additional FLS Devices
Document Ref Building
Level System Additional FLS Devices
191106-PF-IR-32897-VS CSP
L01
FAS
1 no. MCP
190917-PF-IR-19363-VS CSP
L10
FAS
1 no strobe light
191030-PF-IR-32458-VS CSP
L20
FAS
2 nos. strobe lights
191110-PF-IR-33016-NVCSP
L20
FAS
1 no. Smoke detector and 1 MCP
191114-PF-IR-33367-JK CSP
L20
FAS
2 Nos. smoke detector
191105-PF-IR-32810-JK CSP
L20
FAS
1 no. smoke detector
Snag ID: 221977
Pier 2 L10
LIGHTING
2 nos. type A lights
Snag ID: 223163
Pier 2 L10
LIGHTING
1 no. exit light
Drawing
CSP
L20
PAVA 1 no. Speaker
Snag ID : 231945
Pier 2 L3.0
LIGHTING
1 exit light and 2 emergency lights
TOTAL: 16 Devices
The additional FLS devices listed in Annex B hereto and summarised in Table 1 are beyond those advised
previously; and represent substantial changes to the existing design and scope of Works.
As you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and this appears
to have been ignored. Hence this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation
Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the express
requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will
continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Any requirement for us to alter the FLS system will cause delay and disruption and impact upon our
ability to complete remaining Works and / or testing and commissioning, and invariably impact upon
achievement of Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion); hence the need to raise this E-Notice.
Yours faithfully,
