Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0046
The Engineer’s Overdue Responses to the Contractor’s Mechanical Requests for Information
(RFI) – as at 14 February 2019)
Dear Sir,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described herein
may cause delay [and/or disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same.
The Event(s):
In the period between 27 September 2018 and 24 January 2019, the Contractor submitted 12
Mechanical Requests for Information (RFI), on the dates and in the manner summarised in Annex A

hereto, seeking the Engineer’s assistance in resolving various ambiguities in the Mechanical services
design and / or the resolution of various design coordination issues. However, the Contractor notes that
at the cut-off date associated with this E-Notice, i.e. 14 February 2019, while 2 out of the 12 RFIs had
been responded to, the responses were received significantly later that the ‘reply required by’ date (27
calendar days), and the remaining 10 RFIs had yet to be responded to by the Engineer (by upwards of 51
calendar days).
Potential Impact:
The information recorded in Annex A serves to evidence that the 12 RFIs detailed therein relate to
various different aspects of the Mechanical Works to various levels, areas and sectors of the MTB.
Consequently, the outstanding responses have had and where applicable will continue to have a
delaying and disruptive effect on the progress of the Works, particularly at this stage of the Project. This
is because the late and overdue response to the noted RFIs has affected and will continue to affect shop
drawing submittals and / or site works and / or site commissioning activities – not only in terms of delay
but inherent disruption due to the small isolated areas involved and the piecemeal manner in which
were are now expected to work and / or complete certain works which would not have been necessary
but for deficiencies in the design.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described herein.
Yours faithfully,
