Subject:
Wall System

Change to Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-to-

Dear Sir,
In continuation to our meetings regarding the above subject and in relation with our letter referred
above, we would like to record our concern that there has not been any official response to our letter
and the matter is still open without a resolution. We have summarised below the main points at issue in
an effort to enable us to proceed with whatever may be required in this location without further delay.
1.
Responsibility for design of the works and compliance with the codes and Local Authority
requirements remains solely with the Employer. Our responsibility is to construct the Works in

accordance with IFC requirements and to obtain approval of our workmanship and compliance with
these requirements by the Authorities;
2.
During the Tender the Employer via the response to RFC-701 within the Tender Bulletins,
specified GYB-01 (regular non-fire rated gypsum board) to be used in egress passageways. The response
further states that “rated ceilings at egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings to be issued at a later
date)”;
3.
After submission of BAFO but prior to the signing of the Contract, a new system was introduced
by the Engineer under Detail No. 8 (via revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A 62 TB_L_._ _._ 00.640 D_
dated 24 May 2012 and subsequently via Issued For Construction (IFC) MTC A 62 TB_L_._ _._ 00.640 00
dated 15 July 2012): there is no cross reference to this section in the IFC ceiling drawings. The ceiling
drawings indicated GYB-04 gypsum board in contradiction of the Tender Bulletin which specified GYB01;
4.
The referred section cannot be considered a 2-hour fire rated ceiling system from both sides as
it has exposed framing structure in the ceiling void which does not meet the Civil Defence requirements
(ADCD);
5.
To date nobody has been able to name a manufacturer that can provide certification from ADCD
for this system;
6.

The IFC drawings do not define from which direction the 2-hour fire rated should be considered;

7. A system with top and bottom fire rated gypsum boards in various areas in the project has already
been agreed in principle as a Variation via RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 dated 23 January 2018.
Please issue revised IFC documentation for ceilings in these locations that show a system that uses
readily available materials, that is appropriate for the spans and usages required and that has all
certifications and approvals necessary for us to obtain Authority sign-off upon completion.
Unless and until this IFC documentation is made available our Works in these areas will remain on hold
with the lack of this information comprising an Employer prevention matter for which Notice has
already been provided.
Yours faithfully,
