Subject As-Built Drawing Submissions

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject the Engineer rejects the Contractor's claim that the Engineer's
letter
(2) failed to address the fundamental issues related to the Contractor's management of the As-Built
drawings.
The Engineer's numerous correspondences extending to 2014 highlighted the Contractor's requirements
for As-Built drawings, particularly compliance with the Division 1 Specification requirements including
AutoCAD layering, Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and other requirements within Division 1.
The Engineer has repeatedly urged the Contractor to prepare accordingly to avoid delays in the As-Built
drawing submission and approvals.
In (6) the Engineer highlighted numerous examples in which the Contractor did not properly develop,
coordinate or validate the Red-Line drawings prior to submission to the Engineer. In (5) the Engineer
highlighted that the Contractor was not complying with his As-Built drawing procedure and sought to
collaborate with you to streamline the process. This included validation of the As-Built drawing
procedure based upon a successful site trial in Plant Room LB2.
In (3) the Engineer expressed our concerns regarding the Contractor's failed attempts to produce
accurate Red-Line and As-Built drawings and highlighted your lack of resources and planning required to
adequately manage the process. As highlighted in (2), the As-Built drawings submitted by the Contractor
in October and November 2016 were rejected by the Engineer as it was determined that the submission
was not complying with the actual built environment, CADD Manual rev.04 requirements or the As-Built
procedure.
The Contractor ought to have undertaken an in-house review of all Red-Line and As-Built drawings for
accuracy, completeness and procedural compliance prior to submission to the Engineer, however, you
neglected to do so. The Engineer does not accept responsibility for continued failings in this regard and
will hold the Contractor fully accountable for all delays in As-Built drawing submission and acceptance.
It is also apparent that the Engineer's concerns related to the Contractor's unwillingness to use BIM as a
repository of project information to coordinate and verify the Red-Line and As-Built drawings continues
to be ignored by the Contractor to the detriment of the As-Built drawing process.
Notwithstanding the most recent attempts to correctly prepare the As-Built drawings, the Contractor's
workshop dated 30 November 2016 proposed further changes to the As-Built procedure. The draft
revision of the As-Built procedure was informally shared with the Engineer on OS December 2016 and
comments were provided for inclusion in the official submission of the document. The revised
procedure was submitted for review on 28 December 2016 and approved with Code 2 Status by the
Engineer on the 03 January 2017.
The Contractor is again reminded of your obligation under Specification Section 01 33 00 to formally
provide a submittal register with the proposed submittal dates for your As- Built drawings. This request
remains open with you since December 2014 but has not been fulfilled.
Yours faithfully,
