Subject:

Re: Closing of Arch Cladding Joint

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (4) in response to our submitted RFVO reference (3)
(attachment 5), regarding the subject matter. We hereby provide our response below, including the
history of events.
Before proceeding with the detailed history of events, we kindly note that the responsibility of the
Design and Value Engineering (VE) remains solely with the Engineer/Employer. In the case of Arch
Cladding, our responsibility after being provided with the VE reference Arch 19 “Cladding to Main
Arches” (attachment 2) was to take the design indicated in the mentioned VE and produce/design a
system to meet the requirements provided to us, in which we have done so.
Please note that with the VE, you have replaced the Contract requirement of the material to be used in
all centre space main arches and backstays, from GRC claddings to composite aluminium panels.
Moreover, the VE introduced a new system to support the composite aluminium panels on as a
secondary steel support system.
It is an undisputed fact that, all Contract documents and drawings show open joints i.e. 8mm, 12mm and
25mm, to all centre space main arches and backstays. It is also a fact that there is no reference in the
Contract for any closed joints in the arch claddings. With the introduction of the aforementioned VE you
clearly stated “[…] Maintain profiles, joint spacing and joint dimensions as shown on Tender Documents
[…]”. Consequently, this shows an intention to keep the joints open as per the Contract requirements
while changing the cladding material from GRC to aluminium.
After the introduction of the VE in August 2016, we submitted RFI referenced (1) above (attachment 3),
advising that it is not possible to fix the cladding due to the narrow 8mm gap at the typical joints, as per
your design. We suggested increasing the joint from 8mm to 15m to enable the fixing. Also with this RFI
we submitted details for the system design as per the system illustrated in the VE and suggested to
simplify the system connection details. You disagreed with our suggestion, by stating that “the joints
that the contractor is looking to amend in width track from the main arches to the arch landing buttress
cladding. As such, an 8mm joint must be maintained”.

In October 2016 we submitted another RFI referenced (2) above (attachment 4), providing further
details about the system submitted previously via RFI referenced (1) (attachment 3), requesting to check
and confirm your acceptance. You responded to our queries by “confirming the 15mm joint along the
long dimension between the bullnose and the flat panels at the metal composite panels”. You also
attached sketches with details clearly stating and illustrating the following regarding the joint closure:
•
“joints have to be sealed with structural silicone of the same colour as the MCP cladding of the
arches”;
•
“Joint on all axis must be closed”;
•
“75mm closed joint here”;
•
“Seal this joint to prevent views into the panel void”;
•
“Seal this 10mm joint”;
•
“All joints between arch cladding panels must be closed;
•
“All joints must be closed preventing views into the panel void and preventing light spill into this
panel void (arches are uplit by chandeliers)”.
In light of the above, it is a factual and undisputed fact that this change from open joints to sealed joints
in the arch cladding, which was introduced during after the execution of the post-cContract (after the
Contract signing) stage, is a Variation to the Contract requirements, since it was never indicated in any
of the Contract documents.
Moreover, the purpose of the Engineer to seal the joints in the arch cladding is due to aesthetical
reasons. Numerous times during after the execution of the post-Contract stage, you have expressed
your intention and your opinion that the joints have to be sealed to prevent light spill into the panel void
by the chandeliers. This is clearly stated in KPF’s letter ref. KPF-AECOM-2132-LTR-1224 dated 14th May
2018 submitted via your letter referenced (4) above (attachment 1) where it states that “With the
arches and backstays up-lit by chandeliers, there will be instances where the fixation maybe visible to
public view […]”. In addition to this, the issue with the arches being lit up by the chandeliers was also
previously stated in email correspondences from KPF’s representatives (attachment 7). We also note
that the light source from the chandeliers has never changed and has always been the same since the
Tender stage (prior the execution of the Contract), with the open joints requirements in the Arch
Cladding works. In view of the aforementioned, it is obvious that this new requirement is due to
aesthetical reasons, which are realized and introduced during after the execution of thepost- Contract
stage.
Therefore, as per our comments described herein and the below facts:
i.
The Contract requirements for the arch cladding clearly shows open joints;
ii.
A new cladding system has been introduced by you, duringafter the execution of the Contract
via the VE and after it was realised that the closed joints are required to hide the framing system.
You are hereby requested to make a determination to issue a Variation Order, in accordance with your
obligations under the Conditions of Contract Clause 11.4.1, which set out “…the Engineer shall make a
fair determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the
Contract.”.
However, as per your letter reference (4), you indicated that the changes described herein, do not
constitute a Variation. Please be advised that the comments forming the basis of this action are not
justified and are contrary to the Contract requirements.

As a result, we express our disagreement responding to your comment made in your letter reference (4)
wherein you stated that “The requirement to seal joints originated from the Contractor increasing the
width of the joints along the short edge of the flat panels to facilitate fixation (which is Contractor's
design)”. It is also noted that you were obliged under the Contract, to have incorporated this new
requirement within the overall design, during prior the execution of the pre-cContract stage and to
deliver in a timely manner "Issued for Tender/Construction" documents strictly according to your intents
to prevent the light spill into the panel voids by the chandeliers.
Additionally, your comment in your letter referenced (4), where you have requested the “Contractor to
proceed as per the approved shop drawings from 07 Marchh, 2017 with all the joints (8, 12, 15 & 25mm)
shown sealed”, is disregarded. This is due to the fact that the shopdrawings you are referring to, which
are ref. 401-AG-A-08-20-0.00-ST41-SD-012 REV02, 401-AG-A-08-20-0.00-ST41-SD-005 REV02 etc.
(attachment 8), are issued subsequently (in February 2017) from the aforementioned RFIs.
Nevertheless, for the record we would like to comment and highlight that complying to your comments
in the shop drawings, does not change the fact that the change from the IFC design intent is a variation
that requires an Engineers Instruction (EI) to be implemented. It is worth mentioning that you have
been rejecting our shopdrawings until we demonstrated sealed joints. Thus, such approaches to make
changes to the IFC design intent through code 3 comments in the shop drawings without issuing an EI
and a Variation Order, is not acceptable.
In regards to your comment “[…] contractor has chosen to fold the panel edges at the bull nose panels
[…]”, we note that this statement is baseless since folding of panel edges is a common fabrication
practice for all composite panel systems to prevent buckling and to hide the core material visually. In
addition to that, the folded edges have been indicated in IFC Drawing ref. A22-511_rev.01 (attachment
6). There is no reference to any welded edges in the IFC set of documents. Also, it needs to be
mentioned that welded edges are not possible with composite panel systems. Since the metal thickness
in aluminum composite panels is very less (0.5mm alum + 3mm mineral core + 0.5mm alum), it is not
possible to weld the edges. If there was a requirement for this kind of edge finish, the GRC should have
been substituted with solid sheet aluminum panels, not composite aluminum panels.
In light of the foregoing, Wwe hereby provide a notice of claim pursuant to Clause 27.1 [Contractor’s
Claims] for the adjustment of the Contract Price. We reiterate that the Design responsibility and all
value engineered options, as per the Contract, fully lie with the Engineer/Employer. Failing to undertake
the Engineer’s duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the progress of the Works and will continue
to do so, thus, resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and an increase to the Contract Price.
We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction as a formal Variation Order to avoid
further delays and additional costs arising as a result of the unnecessary time required to seek further
clarifications and/or confirmations mandated by Conditions of Contract Clauses 20.1.4, 20.1.5 and
20.3.1 [Variations and Adjustments].
Yours faithfully,
