Subject Notice of Delay to Milestone MS9B
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Contractor's Rev 11.2 Programme dates (Appendix E - Level One
Programme) of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8), and in particular in relation
to Milestone MS9B and we hereby record that based upon the current progress and outstanding
works the Contractor is unlikely to achieve the Contractual Milestone MS9B Completion Date (30 June
2019).
The Contractor has reported a delay of 92 calendar days against MS9B with a forecast date of 30
September 2019, as reported in the updated Programme for the month ending January 2019 (1), i.e. 4
updates from the data date of Rev 11.2.
The Engineer has rejected the revised progress update of the Rev 11.2 Programme via correspondence
reference (2) for noncompliance with the contractual Milestone and the Programme Project Controls
Requirements.
Notwithstanding the above, the Contractor has continued reporting the same forecast completion
date for MS9B as 30 September 2019 in the following monthly updated programmes, in addition to
the submission of various Project Completion Programmes (as presented in the table below).
The Contractor is still maintaining the Project Completion Date MS9C in accordance to the Rev 11.2
Baseline Programme as 31 October 2019, by stacking the remaining activities and modifying the
updated Programme's logic, and in the absence of any justification.
The MS9B delays will have a knock-on effect to the Project Completion Date MS9C due to the major
delays reported by the Contractor in relation to room completion, FDB energization, BCC, MS6A and
MS6B, as a result of the lack of coordination, lack of resources and quality issues etc .. ie Contractor

own delays.
As mentioned above, the Contractor has submitted various revisions of Level 1 Programme where the
major delays are summarized in Attachement-1 (amongst others), while the table below shows the
delays attributed to the Contractual milestones:
As a result of the above, the Employer and the Engineer cannot rely on updated Programmes or any
Project Completion Programmes submitted by the Contractor. The Engineer refers the Contractor to
Attachment 2 that was presented during the Risk Committee Meeting dated 12 May 2019 (3). The
Engineer further notes that subsequent to this, the Contractor forwarded letter (4) confirming
completion of MS9C by 31 October 2019.
The Contractor has failed to provide the required substantiation and a clear strategy for allocating the
required resources and has further failed to take into consideration the subsidence rectification
works/AOS readiness and the impact that the non-compliant LV and ELV wire/cable joints have caused
to the installation, Testing and Commissioning and C&E schedule. In lieu of addressing these, the
Contractor continues to resequence the activities and modify the logic of the updated Programme in
order to maintain the Project Completion Date as 31 October 2019 without any clear substantiation to
support this.
We reiterate that, both the Employer and the Engineer will not be in a position to rely upon the
Contractor's submitted Programme for any planning, monitoring, and stakeholder reporting purposes.
The Contractor is therefore again notified of its own delays and is requested to submit a realistic
mitigation plan with all supporting documents not later than 1 week from the date of receipt of this
letter.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights to impose Delay Damages pursuant to Clause 16.6 of the
Conditions of Contract for the failure to achieve Milestones MS6A, MS6B, and further raise concerns
regarding the completion of the forthcoming Milestone MS9B.
Yours faithfully,
