
Dear Sir,

This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1for the Contractor to submit a quotation for the Variation
proposed by the Engineer.

The Variation as proposed is presented in the enclosed presentation. This represents the current
scheme that has beenjointly discussed and agreed with the Contractor .

The following is a non-exhaustive list of requirements:
The Emergency Escape Stairwell including the Fireman's Lift Pop Up from Al Sadd Street is to be moved
towards the Entrance Shelter No.1a nd if possible merged with the Entrance Shelter itself.

Provide an additional 3m wide fire- protected escape tunnel to run alongside the station box to be
connected to the relocated Emergency Escape Sta irwell and Fireman's Lift Pop Up as above.

The height and spacing of the remaining ventilation shafts along Al Sadd street is to be optimised in
order to minimize visual impact on the surrounding environment.

The final location of the aforementioned structures is to be also optimised so as to minimise impact on
underground utilities.
Dear Sir,
This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1to initiate a variation. The nature and extent of the
variation is provided below:

The Variation as proposed is presented in the enclosed presentation. This represents the current
scheme that has been jointly discussed and agreed with the Contractor.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of requirements:

The Emergency Escape Stairwell including the Fireman's Lift Pop Up from Al Sadd Street is to be moved
towards the Entrance Shelter No.1and if possible merged with the Entrance Shelter itself.
Provide an additional 3m wide fire-protected escape tunnel to run alongside the station box to be
connected to the relocated Emergency Escape Stairwell and Fireman's Lift Pop Up as above.
The height and spacing of the remaining ventilation shafts along Al Sadd Street Is to be optimized in
order to minimize visual impact on the surrounding environment.

The final location of the aforementioned structures is to be also optimized so as to minimize impact on
underground utilities.
The present Instruction is not canceling the Contractor's obligation to submit the correspondi ng
quotation as requested in the Engineer's Direction referenced above.
Yours faithfully,
