Subject: Delay Notification- Slow Progress to As-Built Submission .
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letters (referenced 1, 2 and 3) in which you advise us of alleged slow

progress and delays in relation to the As-Built submissions.
We disagree with your comments that we have a lack of engineering resources, inadequate planning
and inefficient management of our engineering resources. In fact, we feel that the slow progress you
refer to is a by-product of your inability to review and return the As-Built Drawings and associated
Submittals within the stipulated time periods expressly prescribed within the Contract.
The fact remains we continue to submit significant quantities of As-Built Drawings for your review for
multiple disciplines yet you consistently fail to honour your obligations under the Contract to review
and respond within the turn-around times stipulated at Article 3.1 of Specification Section 013300.
This is evidently clear from the number of E-Notices we have been compelled to raise between 11
November 2018 and 4 June 2019 such as our letters ref: 4 to 11; which not only identified the status
of overdue responses at the time our notices were prepared but alerted you to the fact that your
ongoing
failure to respond promptly to our As-Built Drawings has a direct impact on our ability to obtain
the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to achievement of Milestone MS09B and
moreo~er, has the potential to impact achievement of Substantial Completion, i.e. Milestone MS09C.
Regretfully however a large quantity of As-Built Drawings are still with you, and remain unreturned
and without comment. In certain cases, and as detailed in our letters (ref: 4 to 11), you have failed to
reply to many submitted As-Built Drawings by the prescribed return dates by more than 100 days.
Under the circumstances, we respectfully request that you refrain from sending delay notifications on
this matter and instead work with us to close out the backlog of As-Built drawings which remain
currently in your possession, whilst continuing the momentum reviewing any recent submissions.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing our
obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, but will not
be held responsible for factors such as those outlined above for which we are not culpable.
Yours faithfully,
