Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0159

Security System (Security Access Control and Video Surveillance System) – Snagging, De-snagging and
Defects Management
Unreasonable Snagging and De-Snagging Comments Uploaded to ZUTEC
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays to the Works due to unreasonable snagging items
being uploaded to ZUTEC associated with non-existent Security Systems elements (Security Access
Control System – ‘SACS’ and Video Surveillance System – ‘VSS’) snags and unnecessary ‘duplications.’
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
impacting on MS06A and MS06B. This will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write to notify you of appreciable concerns we have in relation to multiple unfounded comments
being uploaded by you on the ZUTEC system; primarily issued in relation to purported ‘snags’ raised
against the Security Systems (Security Access Control System – ‘SACS’ and Video Surveillance System –
‘VSS’) in various rooms when in fact no elements have been installed by us and as such do not warrant
uploading to ZUTEC. This unreasonable practice has to cease forthwith but in the meantime continues
to have major ramifications on Room Completion, Snagging, De-Snagging and Defects Management.
As we are sure you appreciate, the ZUTEC system is completely ‘fluid’ and changing daily. However, at
the date of preparing this E-Notice, there are approximately 168,000 snags uploaded to the ZUTEC
system, out of which, approximately 5,560 concerns the Security Systems. Unfortunately, out of these,
you have erroneously identified 750 individual ‘snags’ allegedly relating to the SACS & VSS in rooms that
do not have any elements installed within them as per IFC and approved SD. This in itself causes
immense problems in so far as we are forced to unnecessarily close out a ‘snag’ on the ZUTEC system
that in reality does not actually exist. Very simply, once such a ‘snag’ has been entered onto ZUTEC, in
order to clear this [even though it does not exist] we have to provide a ‘clearance sheet’ to mark the
room areas as “Security System for this room area is Not Applicable (N/A)”, as well as attach extracts
from both the corresponding Shop Drawing and IFC Drawing in order to prove that there are no Security
Systems trades within that particular room / area.
Not only does this take up unnecessary administrative time given that it takes at least 30 minutes to
review, identify and upload the relevant supporting information to ZUTEC, but also affects our defects /
snagging team on site in terms of them having to inspect then re-inspect areas and rooms which would
not be necessary but for your unreasonable practice of erroneously identifying alleged defects or snags
that do not exist. This is a matter that is otherwise wholly avoidable, especially at such a late stage of
the Project.

What is particularly disconcerting is that the number of incorrect snags/de-snags in ‘N/A room areas’
uploaded by you to ZUTEC seems to be increasing on a regular basis. Therefore, we urge you to take
immediate and appropriate action and avoid uploading any further similar ‘N/A’ snags/de-snags.
In addition to the foregoing, our ability to close out snagging and complete rooms is being further
hindered by numerous unnecessary duplicated items being uploaded to ZUTEC by you, which for
example consists of the same Security System element installed at the same location, which despite
being identical are nevertheless being uploaded with a different reference number.
Examples of this unnecessary duplication include the following:
•
“18 - Documentation Fail- Provide Code-2 comment sheet” and “18 - Documentation Fail - Final
punch list to be done and provide the appropriate document” – in reality is the same defect description
with same document to be attached, both with different snag IDs; and
•
“18 - Documentation Fail - Final fix inspection to be done and provide the code 2 comment
sheet.” with snag number 00042846 and “18 - Documentation Fail - Final punch list to be done and
provide the appropriate document” with snag number 00042849 both raised for the same room “C-L202585-FOOD & BEVERAGE” on the same date.
In view of the high volume of snagging items that need to be closed and actioned, and the current acts
of prevention outlined above that is impacting and continues to impact on our ability to expedite room
completions and conclude our Works throughout the MTB, we urge you to immediately desist from
raising unnecessary snags and uploading the same on the ZUTEC system. As outline above, this is wholly
avoidance and is unnecessarily delaying us for which you hold you entirely culpable.
Resultant Impact
Meanwhile, the various delays and acts of prevention on your part outlined herein is undeniably causing
delay and disruption to completion of our Works and is continuing to prevent achievement of Milestone
MS06A and Milestone MS06B. This will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
