
Dear sir

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Instruction ("El") No. 51 sent under cover of reference 2
(received by the Contractor on 06 May 2015) which instructs the Contractor to incorporate revised
Employer's Requirements (Sub-Clause 2.2.1.2 of Volume 5 has been revised) within its design and
construction of Ras Bu Abboud 's stabling yard, light maintenance and train washing facility.

The Contractor is of the view that this El is a Variation under General Condition ("GC") 13 (entitled
"Variations
& Adjustments ") of Volume 3 of the Contract.

Accordingly, this letter therefore serves (1) as the Contractor's "Variation" Notice pursuant to GC 3.3.3
that the Contractor believes El No. 51 to be a Variation which will create Entitlement to the Contractor,
(2) as the Contractor's "Extension" Notice pursuant to GC 8.4.2 that the Contractor believes that it may

be entitled to an extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to GC 8.4.1(a) as a result of the
issuance of El No. 51 and, (3) as the required Notice pursuant to GC 20.1.2.

In accordance with GC 3.3.4, GC 8.4.4 and GC 20.1.6 the Contractor is required to provide the Engineer
with details of any anticipated extension of the Time for Completion (via a Time Impact Analysis) and/or
a proposed adjustment of the Contract Price within 28 days from this Variation/Extension Notice, i.e. by
17.06.15.

However, as the Employer/Engineer and the Engineer's Assistant are aware (reference 1 refers), after
many studies and investigations, the Contractor is currently undertaking and concluding an exercise in
developing an identified further alternative solution to that agreed with Employer that incorporates all
of the additional/revised Employer's Requirements of El No. 51 but will decrease the total Works
involved and will avoid encroachment into the neighbouring Ashghal land, thereby providing a shallower
excavation and construction. The Contractor believes that this alternative solution will have the
potential effect of reducing the

ALYSJ
joint venture

price and time impact of El No. 51 which will be of benefit to both the Employer and the Contractor .
Please find attached for your convenience a work-in-progress layout drawing of this alternative solution.

The Contractor would like to propose this second alternative solution as a formal Value Engineering
Proposal pursuant to GC 13.5 of the Contract. Given the work involved in finalizing the alternative
solution to sufficient detail in order to assess the price and programme requirements for the alternat ive
solution, along with the work and time involved in doing the same exercise for the effect of El No. 51 as
currently instructed (pursuant to GC 3.3.4, GC 8.4.4 and GC 20.1.6), the Contractor respectfully requests
an extended period of 41 days to 30 June 2015 in order to provide the Engineer with details of any
potential extension of the Time for Completion and/or a proposed adjustment of the Contract Price due
to El No. 51. At the same time, the Contractor will also be in a position to provide its formal Value
Engineering Proposal (fully priced and programmed), pursuant to GC 13.5, for the Contractor's
alternative solution.

Notwithstanding, the aforementioned request for an extension to the submissions required pursuant to
GC 3.3.4, GC 8.4.4 and GC 20.1.6, the Contractor can commence excavation works to the stabling yard

area/footprint which is common to (1) the footprint for the current Contract requirements (including El
No. 51),
(2) the footprint for the Contractor's initial solution which was previously discussed and agreed in
principle with the Employer/Engineer/Engi neer's Assistant and, (3) the proposed footprint for the
Contractor's alternative solution.

The Contractor therefore looks forward to hopefully receiving the Engineer's prompt agreement to
extending the 28 day period to 41 days to 30 June 2015 in order to provide the Engineer with details of
any anticipated extension of the Time for Completion and/or a proposed adjustment of the Contract
Price due to El No. 51.

Yours faithfully,
