
Subject: Descope of Lozenges
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (3) and your letter
referenced (4) above, find below our response for the matter subject.
For ease of reference, we present herewith, the history of events associated with the foregoing, in an
attempt to resolve this matter at once:
A.
The Variation Order for the “Lighting Lozenges subsequent to the benchmark approval at LO.O”
was issued to you for 173 No of Lozenges, as per reference (2) above, in accordance with the agreed
fabric specification forming part of the Variation Order;
B.
The Variation Order was accepted by you in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 with letter
reference (4) above, in which you stated that in case of a change in fabric requirement you will revise
the prices included and agreed as mentioned in Item (A) above, however this was never requested by
the Employer or ourselves;
C.
During the meetings held in the presence of the Employer you requested a fabric change for the
Lozenges from Verseidag 828100 (which is as per the Contract Specification) to ATEX 4000, where it was
agreed that there will not be any time or cost impact, in case we proceeded with the change. We

reiterate that no change was requested by the Employer or by us. Subsequently, the change request was
raised only after your suggestion, as mentioned above. Moreover, it was made clear by the Employer
and ourselves that the change could only be made only and if there was no time and cost impact,
otherwise you were requested to proceed with the original IFC fabric requirements; [attach relevant
correspondence]
D.
However, following the agreement for the fabric change as stated in Item C above, you
submitted a transmittal ref MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2479 dated 30th October 2017, requesting additional AED
3,197,094.21 for the change (an increase in the order of approximately 47% over the amount agreed).
We requested the breakdown and substantiation for the increase but you failed to provide it and
refused to proceed on site without the issuance of a VO for the additional amount requested. This
demonstrates your intention not to continue performance of your obligations under the Subcontract
and complete the works and as per Clause 22.2.2 [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default],
we are enabled to terminate the part of the works affected;
E.
Thereafter a reduction of the quantity of the lozenges from 173 No to 10 No was requested by
the Employer;
F.
After the reduction in the quantity as stated in Item E above, you submitted ROM108 Rev02 for
the 10 No lozenges via transmittal dated 7th December 2017 ref. MTB-CLO-TCAJV-T2573 and letter
reference (6) above, in which by prorate comparison, the price of AED 2,371,215.62 given in the
abovementioned transmittal, was significantly increased by 248% i n comparison to the same quantity
given in the original quotation, which by way of comparison it was AED 1,037,855.00 instead. In addition
to the above, it is also noted that, during our email correspondence (email sent by your representative
on Sunday, December 10, 2017 5:02 PM) you stated that “The initial price was grossly underestimated
by M/s. SAS and subsequently corrected in the recent submissions based on the design development
process and obtaining related costing based on the aforementioned…”. This statement cannot be
accepted and as per Clause 20.3.14, once a Variation Order is agreed and issued, the points of
agreement are binding upon the Parties;
G.
Thereon, we requested you via official correspondence [attach relevant correspondence] and
several email correspondence to submit the substantiation of the increase in price, but you failed to do
so;
H.
Since the situation became critical, and you failed to substantiate the price and furthermore
failed to proceed with the works, we issued the letter referenced (3) above, omitting the sections of the
mentioned Subcontract Works.
In view of the above events, our position is as follows:
(i)
we are entitled at any time prior to the issue of the Performance Certificate to issue instructions
requiring the implementation of Variations with immediate effect [Sub-Clause 20.1.1 of the General
Conditions of Subcontract];
(ii)
we have, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.2, issued Variation Order No 16 instructing the Variation;
(iii)
you are obliged to comply with and give immediate effect to all Variations instructed or
confirmed in writing by the Contractor by way of formal Variation Order [Sub-Clause 20.1.3]
(iv)
we are obliged to proceed to agree or determine any adjustment to the Subcontract Price by
reason of the Variation [Sub-Clause 20.3.2];
(v)
Until such time as an appropriate rate or price is agreed or determined, the Contractor shall
determine a provisional rate or price for the purposes of interim payments under Schedule 11 [Payment
Terms].
Moreover, for the avoidance of any doubt, we consider that:

(a)
we have complied with all of our obligations relating to Variation Order No 16, including
agreement of the adjustment to the Subcontract Price in the amount of AED 6,837,389.85 in respect of
all events occurring up to the issuance of letter reference (3) in which we de-scoped the works from you;
(b)
your failure to implement and give immediate effect to Variation Order No 16 puts you in
breach of the Subcontract and holds you liable for any and all damages arising therefrom;
(c)
you failed to provide proper substantiation as mentioned above and during our meetings and
several correspondence, thus no variation can be issued without proper substantiation;
(d)
you failed to proceed with the works on site as instructed; and
(e)
the events described in this letter and as stated by you during several meetings and
correspondences, prove that you did not intend to proceed with the works without the additional
amount approved, which is a breach of your binding contractual obligations.
If you considered that you were entitled to further adjustment to the Subcontract Price due to events
which are still unknown and unclarified to us, then subject to you following the procedure set down in
the Subcontract for Subcontractor’s Claims, we would have agreed or determined any further
adjustment accordingly.
Furthermore, in response to your letter reference (4), requesting us to provide substantiation for the
key dates and the agreed programme, please note that the key dates and the latter where given with
our letter ref MTB/TCA/ClOISAll/l/001088 dated 23 September 2017. [please confirm]
In relation to your comment requesting us to provide substantiation for the “Approval of Benchmark” as
mentioned in your letter, please be informed that it has already been verbally approved by the
Employer and you have been informed by the Engineer via {include ………………….]. Moreover the
calculation of the structural steel has been approved via Document Submittal ref DS/0401/10789-01
Document Number ref 0401-CLO-CA-C-A-0049, which means that you should have started works on site
by 26 December 2017.
Your statement that we are required to provide substantiation to “Variation to the benchmark, MEP
(ANEL) co-ordination issues, Notifications of delays issued to Cloisall” is not clear and is currently been
disregarded until further clarification.
Please note that your statement on the last paragraph of the second page, regarding the amount of the
negative VO, you are instructed to submit your Cost pursuant Clause 3 [Application for Interim
Payments] of Schedule 11 [Payment Terms]. Please note that to enable us to evaluate the works
associated with the benchmark you are instructed pursuant but not limited to Clauses 20.3.2, 20.3.3,
20.3.6 (a,b), 20.3.7 to provide a breakdown and analysis of cost for the benchmark works and the
Contractor will proceed in accordance to Clause 11.4 [Determinations], after considering the
Subcontractor’s assessment, determine the value of the cost to the execution of the works.
Lastly, you statement in the first paragraph of page 3 regarding the reference of VO No 14 for the
“Lighting Trays”, and the discount offered, we consider this to be of no contractual basis and is wholly
disregarded. The reason for this is that, “Lighting Trays works” have been issued as a VO on its own (i.e.
VO No 14). The discount provided in VO No 16 for the “Lozenges” has no contractual relevance to VO No
14. In addition to this, be informed that a discount given in a VO shall not affect the price of any other
VO in anyway. Therefore your statement that you will seek adjustments in VO No 14 for the omission of
works in VO No 16 is not accepted.

Yours faithfully,
