
Dear Sir,

Further to verbal request on the 161h of August by the Employer's representative at the site of the
Architectural Mock-up and a subsequent series of MSI coordination meetings, the Contractor outlines
below the additional scope that it understands to be requested of it:

1.
Civil works to accommodate the housing of rolling stock (delivery, installation, alignment &
protection by others), consisting of a 600m2 Reinforced Concrete slab on grade and associated strip
foundations.
2.
Extension & modification of existing steel structure and building envelope including glass
fa9ade.
3.
Modifications and additions to the MEP installations to support the facility, including
architectural lighting.
4.
Clearing of the site and provision of a tarmacadam (2,600m2) surface and 50 car parking shade
structures and minor landscaping works to entrance reception area.
5.
Upgrading the existing facility to create a showroom environment including, but not limited to,
floor finishes to entire common areas, terrazzo decking to PSD screen installation, temporary toilet
facilities & seating provisions.

Items 2 & 5 require further detailed clarif ication of scope as some rough assumptions have been made
to cover the Architecturalfinishing. The installation and protection of the rolling stock and provisions of
access walkway
& ramp alongside the installation are not included in this estimate . In addition to the works, the
maintenance and operation period needs to be identified.
For your information ,the Contractor has estimated an order of magnitude cost to undertake the
foregoing works to upgrade the Mock-up facility to house the rolling stock at around OAR 4 Million.

The Contractor wishes to inform the Engineer's Assistant and the Employer that in order to expedite the
works it has begun mobilising personnel and material to undertake the abovement ioned scope.
Consequently, the Employer's confirmation that it wishes to undertake these additional works is
requested by return.

Yours faithfully,
