Subject:Notice of Delay – Delays caused to other Subcontractors
Dear Sir/Madam,
We refer to the above mentioned subject and record your persistent failure to complete your works in a
timely manner as required. We hereby express our serious concern about your ability to progress your
site activities and remind you of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 8.1.2
[Subcontractors Obligations] that you should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of
TCAJV or other Subcontractors.
Mainly, the Subcontractors affected by your delays include but are not limited to M/S CCM and M/S AIG.
It is evident that your lack of resources i.e. lack of manpower and supervision which you have been
instructed to increase numerous times but failed to do so, is causing delays and is affecting the
sequence of works of other Subcontractors.
Specifically, as per CCM’s sequence of works, for each and every installation of the counters,
immigration canopies, camera poles, info panels etc., the completion of the marble and grout works
takes precedence.

For AIG, the delays of marble installation are causing delays to the buggy rail and the trolley rail stainless
steel items, mainly at the Entrance hall – Entrance door fronts.
In view of the above, your delays are causing unrecoverable slippages to follow-on trades and are
affecting the entire progress. This is of a great concern to us, due to the fact that some of the other
Subcontractors works are linked to the Testing & commissioning activities and your delays are
consequently delaying the target milestones.
We also put on record, that even though there have been numerous joint site walkthroughs and site
meetings, where you have been provided with many open work-fronts, however, you failed to proceed
accordingly.
Moreover, for the past five (5) months your presence in the Entrance and Departure hall L2 is counted
as 7 to 10 stone workers which are insufficient for the volume of works.
In addition to the lack of manpower, we also note that the marble boxes are located to several zones
and are obstructing the access for site logistics and other ongoing works such as roofing, ceiling, arch
cladding, T&C–BHS works and housekeeping. Therefore, you are requested to prevent marble boxes
shifting from one side to other and manage your storage and housekeeping in a better manner.
In light of the above, you are hereby instructed pursuant to Subcontract Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the
Contractor], to immediately increase your manpower, take all necessary mitigation measures and
commence without delay with the works to provide work-fronts to other Subcontractors, accordingly.
Accordingly, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of the aforementioned issues, will be solely your responsibility including
but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your utmost attention and further necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
