Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 2) the Contractor encloses herewith the requested
particulars pertaining to the valuation of 1:1 Mock-Up works on the basis of its actual and future
anticipated design, procurement, construction and running expenses by means of twelve (12) correlated
Appendices.

The Contractor had commenced its quantity take-offs immediately upon receipt of the said letter
however the progress of the works (and hence the progress of payments to third parties) at the time did
not permit a conclusive valuation for the same. Currently, the Contractor has not only completed the
said take offs but has also carried out the segregation and quantification of its actual costs attributable
to each of the measured quantities on a strictly standardized, BoQ line-item basis.

The completion of both undertakings has now given rise to the 1:1 Mock-Up Bill of Quantities attached
to this letter as Appendix A, the format and pricing methodology of which have been kept in-line with
standard industry practices. Adjacent to each of the bill items, the Contractor has provided the
reference(s) to the relevant Appendix (or Appendices, as the case may be) where some or all of its
underlying actual costs forming the basis of the calculated unit rate for each of the said bill items are to
be found.

By means of example, the bill rates against all HVAC-related line items have been calculated on the basis
of the actual cost records contained within Appendix K. The said Appendix contains the list of all HVAC
cost-related items procured by the Contractor with clear reference as to the item description, the dry
unit cost, the quantities, the vendor name and the respective Work Order, Purchase Order and / or Hire
Order number as the case may be.

Currently, the Contractor has appended eleven (11) out of twelve (12) Appendices excluding only
Appendix F which relates to the actual WO/PO/HO documents and their respective proof of payment
and which is still under preparation due to the high volume of accounting document recoveries. The

final submission including reference to proof of payments has been scheduled for submission no later
than this coming Tuesday, 5th of July.

Such proof of payment documentation along with a seamless link to the segregated cost summaries of
Appendices B, C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K and L and to the Bill of Quantities of Appendix A was not explicitly
requested by the Engineer’s Assistant vide letter reference 2) but was nevertheless undertaken by the
Contractor in the spirit of the open-book policy prescribed in General Condition (“GC”) 13.7.2 of Volume
3 of the Contract.

Provided that the quantum of this valuation will remain unchanged, this present submission suffices for
the purpose of providing 1) a “Comprehensive Bill of Quantities of all works involved”, 2) “Evidence of all
activities and related breakdown” and 3) “Evidence of the interrelation between the Bill of Quantities
and the documents attached to the aforementioned Contractor’s letter” as requested via letter
reference 2).

The upcoming final submission shall address the last item raised via letter reference 2) i.e. “the total and
certified cost to date”, whereas the current application for further evidence with respect to the
“controlling measures, including all steps that were taken by the Contractor in order to prevent,
mitigate, and minimize the total cost of the alleged variation” could now be particularized and
expressed with explicit reference to any given bill item allegedly deemed to suffer from any such
deficiencies.

Yours faithfully,
