Subject:
Belhasa Subcontract quantity for PFT-01, for concrete floors and skirting is 2,110 M2 and 1,107.30 M
respectively. However, the actual requirement is much higher than these quantities. This is because as

per the IFC drawings contained in the tender documents, the PFT-01 was not indicated in the IFC
drawings in level 2 & 3. Nevertheless, PFT-01 finishes in these levels were actually mentioned in the IFC
finishing schedule.
Therefore, since the aforementioned works were contained in the Contract Documents, are therefore
deemed to be included within the lump-sum Subcontract Agreement. Contractually, as a competent
and experienced Subcontractor, Belhasa deemed to have exercised best practice when reviewing the
tender documentation – having full knowledge of the project requirements, drawings and specification
and should have immediately notified us accordingly.
In view of the above, even though it is a lump sum contract, in order to maintain a good business
relationship and ensure the smooth progress of the works we mutually agreed for a distribution of the
costs as described below.
Before explaining the details for the mutual agreement between us, we would also like to note that, the
original Subcontract value for Belhasa was AED 7,980,000. However, an amount of AED 5,716,905 was
later descoped, for a major portion of their works via VO-01.Notwithstanding the above, Belhasa have
submitted a performance bond worth 10% of their original sub contract price.
It has now been mutually agreed to distribute the extra cost due to the additional PFT-01 works
between the TCAJV and Belhasa, Specifically, 60% will be borne by TCA JV and 40% will be borne by
Belhasa.
The Scope of Additional Works will be on Re-measurable basis utilising the rates shown the table below.
Response to Mosart’s Prolongation cost letter ref: MMM/18/MTB/116, dated 14 July 2018
Dear Sir,
Further to your letter referenced above, which is in response to Contractor’s letter reference
MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000576 dated 20 June 2016, the Contractor hereby sets out its response
accordingly. For convenience the Contractor has used the same subheadings confirmed within Mosart’s
letter:
Performance Bond and Advance Payment Guarantee charges
The Contractor acknowledges Mosart’s clarification surrounding the discrepancy between the applied
bank charge of 0.75% and their initial agreement charge of 1.25% per annum. Nonetheless, Mosart are
still required to provide any additional agreement/charges associated with the extended project
periods.
Finance Charges
In consideration of the further justification provided by Mosart, the Contractor maintains it position that
no evidence has been provided, which directly links the alleged compensable periods and associated
prolongation costs with the buy back agreements with their bank. Therefore, in the absence of evidence
to the contrary, the Contractor considers such arrangement and its associated charges would have been
incurred with or without the alleged compensable delays.
Insurance
As already stated in the Contractor’s aforementioned letter, Mosart are required to demonstrate 1) all
applicable insurances are project specific, and not a companywide policy (i.e. would be incurred with or

without the alleged delays; 2) records to show the additional insurance premium associated with the
extended period; 3) records to show proof of payment against the additional premium.
In particular, Mosart must provide evidence to demonstrate their Marine and Land Insurance was
project specific, otherwise the Contractor will consider them as companywide policies, which are 1) an
overhead, and 2) would have been incurred with or without the alleged compensable delays.
Further, Mosart are required to provide evidence of the ‘JV request’ to take out project specific PII
Insurance.
Staff Costs
The Contractor acknowledges Mosart’s further clarification with respect to evidencing staff and will
review such records upon confirmation and approval of any compensable delay periods.
Regarding Location Staff, Mosart must sufficiently demonstrate and evidence that such staff were
impacted by compensable delays and could not be relocated elsewhere as part of their contractual
obligation to mitigate any adverse impact. i.e. Mosart staff working in Pier 1 may not have been critically
delayed within a compensable period.

Plant and Machinery
In the absence of an explanation to the contrary, plant and machinery such as forklifts, boom loaders
and bobcats etc are considered task related. Further, Mosart need to demonstrate that maintenance
and fuel costs are attributable to the time related plant, vehicles and equipment.
Further, Mosart must provide additional justification and evidence to support handwritten contracts and
invoices.
The Contractor does not agree or accept with the Mosart’s statement that certain plant, machinery or
vehicles will have no residual value at the end of their contract. The Contractor will treat depreciation
items on a case by case basis in terms of reasonableness.
Labour Accommodation
The Contractor acknowledges the additional evidence provided by Mosart against this cost head.
However, as previously stated in the Contractor’s aforementioned letter, the cost of accommodation for
direct works is generally considered a task related cost. Although Mosart have provided invoices and
timesheets, they have not demonstrated why this should be considered in prolongation costs.
Labour Transportation
The Contractor acknowledges the additional evidence provided by Mosart against this cost head.
However, as previously stated in the Contractor’s aforementioned letter, transportation for direct works
is generally considered a task related cost. Although Mosart have provided invoices and timesheets,
they have not demonstrated why this should be considered in prolongation costs.
Site Maintenance and Running Costs
Mosart’s further justification against this cost head is insufficient. Further proof is required to link their
records with the Midfield Terminal Building Abu Dhabi Project;
Office Stationary
Mosart’s further justification against this cost head is insufficient. Further proof is required to link their
records with the Midfield Terminal Building Abu Dhabi Project;
Office Consumables and Misc
In the absence of an explanation to the contrary, associated consultancy fees and commercial support to
develop their claim for prolongation costs are not considered time related costs.
Offsite Storage Rent

The Contractor acknowledges the tenancy agreements provided in English. However, Mosart must
demonstrate why this is considered time related i.e. if the rental agreement had to be extended due to
the delays incurred on the project; otherwise it would be considered part of the subcontractor's
overhead costs.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor’s additional comments above are without prejudice and as
such are to be used independently to the assessment of the prolongation Cost submission and EOT
which will follow once Mosart have submitted full particulars etc. as described in the Contractor’s
aforementioned letter above and the further letters referenced within it.
Yours faithfully…..
