Subject:

RE: Notice of Correct – Failure to commence works

Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced above (3) and your subsequent correspondence (4), we hereby write to
reaffirm our position regarding the inclusion of the ‘AWW-02’ panel(s). The aforementioned panels are
clearly contained in the Contract Documents (Appendix P) and are therefore deemed to be included
within your lump-sum tender submission and the subsequent Letter of Award (1). We refer you to
Appendix E (Instructions to Tenderers); specifically to clause 4.2.60 which clearly states that the
Delineation Plan (Appendix P) should be read in conjunction with the rest of the document ation.
As a competent and experienced Subcontractor, you are deemed to have exercised best practice when
reviewing the tender documentation – having full knowledge of the project requirements, drawings and
specification as contained within the Letter of Award’s Scope of Works [Clause 1.3]. Furthermore, as

stated within the Conditions of Subcontract Clause 9.6.2 [Priority of Documents], the Subcontractor
should immediately notify the Contractor of any inconsistencies, ambiguities and discrepancies
contained within the documents, (which you failed to do) so.
In addition to the above, the Letter of Award [Clause 2.5] clearly states:
“……..the quantities set out in the Bill of Quantities in the tender Documents are estimated quantities for
the Sub-Contract works and are not to be taken as the actual and correct quantities of the works to be
executed.”
Therefore, since you did not raise the above discrepancies prior to the execution of the Agreement, the
access panels and frameworks contained within the tender documentation and subsequent LOA are
included within the agreed lump-sum price. The assertions contained within your previous
correspondence are therefore rejected and we consider this matter closed.
It is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or any other
Subcontractor(s) arising as a result of your failure to undertake the said works expeditiously shall be at
your risk and recovered from your account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and
other relevant clauses.

This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
