
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) wherein the Contractor provided its position regarding
its non-compliance with the Heads of Agreement {HOA) and the Contractual requirement to provide a
concurrency analysis. The Engineer maintains the position conveyed to the Contractor for the past two
years and reference is made to correspondence {3) to (9) above.
The Contractor's assertion that an assessment of Concurrent Delays is not relevant to EOTl is
fundamentally incorrect as per the following:

Clause 3 of the HOA states "The Employer hereby agrees to reimburse the Contractor's Costs for the full
period of extensions to the Times for Completion of the Contract Milestones in Schedule 16 (Milestones)
to the Extended Date's stipulated in Appendix 1 hereto, such Costs to be substantiated as set out in
these
Heads of Agreement"
The Contractor in letter (1) provides its opinion regarding the meaning ofthe above Clause, however the
wording of the Clause is unambiguous and clear reference is made to the manner upon which the Cost is
to be substantiated, i.e. "as set out in these Heads of Agreement". The Contractor's opinion is not
supported by any provision in the HOA. In addition to Clause 3 above, Clause 23 of the HOA provides
"The Contractor's Claims for Costs shall be
evaluated and agreed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract. All Contractors'
Claims for Costs shall be notified (to the extent that this has not yet been done), particularized and
substantiated and approved or disapproved in accordance with Clause 27 of the Construction Contract".
The above Clause expresses the clear intent of the Parties for Clause 27 of the Conditions of Contract to
govern the manner by which Cost mentioned in the HOA is to submitted, assessed and substantiated.
Despite the Contractor's recent resubmission of Cost related to the HOA {6}, the concurrency analysis
remains outstanding for a circa two years and as per the Contractor's admission vide correspondence {2}
the Contractor is not willing to submit it and remains in breach of Contract.
Clause 27.2.1 of the Conditions of Contract requires the Contractor to submit a time impact analysis,
using a methodology which is acceptable to the Employer, demonstrating the effect and consequences
of the events and periods of delay relied upon by the Contractor in its claims (a Time Impact Analysis}.
The Contractor's TIAs submitted to date are not compliant with the Contract and do not include the
mitigation measures being adopted by the Contractor and a concurrency analysis.
The assessment of concurrency forms part of the Time Impact Analysis submission. The Contractor is
required to demonstrate that there are no concurrent delays caused by the Contractor as a condition
precedent to compensation for delays in accordance with the Program Project Control Requirements
{Clause 1.3.7, Contract, Schedule 12}.
The Contractor's attempt to introduce ambiguity to the prov1s1ons of the HOA and the Contract
provisions indicates bad faith as it misrepresents the clear intent of the HOA. It is notable that the
Contractor in order to support its current position, has changed its opinion regarding the SCL Delay and
Disruption Protocol ("SCL Protocol"}. The Contractor in correspondence (2} was adamant that the
following is applicable:
"Furthermore, neither the AACE International nor the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance
which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal Project".
The Contractor appears to disregard the above statement in a futile attempt to justify that it is not in
breach of its binding contractual obligations. The Engineer maintains that the provision of a concurrency
analysis is a mandatory requirement and not discretionary. The Contractor's submissions in relation to
the HOA fail to provide an analysis that demonstrates that no concurrent delays has been caused by the
Contractor. The Contractor is aware of what is required to be included in a TIA submission since 2013 as
demonstrated in correspondence {8}.
This position has been formally communicated via the Employer's correspondence {9} in response to the
Contractor's letter {10} on the same subject.
With regard to the legal issues raised in the Contractor's letter (lL it is our understanding that the
Employer is writing separately to the Contractor in order to address them.
In light of the above, the Contractor is requested to fully address the issues raised by the Engineer and
provide a contractually compliant concurrency analysis.

Yours faithfully,
