
Subject: Request for Confirmation of Variation Order for Electrical Closets without Smoke
Detectors (RFEI/0401/0618)
Dear Sir,
With reference to your letter (3) above please be advised that the information, comments, clarifications
and/or instructions contained therein (albeit not properly set out as IFC) constitute an instruction of
Variation.
The Engineer's response to RFEI/0401/0618 requires 38 additional smoke detectors in various Electrical

Closets as set out in the schedule provided (ARUP File Note ref. 122222/SF/MEP/074 Electrical closets
that require smoke detectors).
Arup's letter reference 122222/SL/0890 dated 30 March 2017 (copy enclosed for reference as
Attachment
A), expressly states that "The originai/FC showed sprinklers only which is permitted by code but does
not provide a room address at the fire alarm panel, in Bulletin 134" whereby "at the request of ADAC
Operations, smoke detectors were added to small individual rooms such as electrical closets ... "
For the avoidance of any doubt, the Engineer remains responsible for setting out the requirements in a
clear and unambiguous without resorting to misrepresentations of hard facts by reference to "design
intents." Had those intents been so clearly set out in Bulletin 134 documents in the first instance, there
would not have been any need to provide a table to set out the additional requirements.
In addition, please be advised that most of these rooms have already been constructed. As a result this
late change will cause abortive Works and significant delays to the Electrical closets which will in turn
delay the Works.
We consider the Engineer has issued instructions constituting a Variation which are not in the form of,
or which have not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of a formal Variation Order.
In accordance with Conditions of Contract (COC) clause 20.1.4 (b), please provide a formal confirmation
of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to
COC 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a).
In the event the Engineer does not take the above Contract required actions then in accordance with
COC clause 20.1.5 the ·contractor would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the above
described Variation. Should this materialise then the Employer shall be solely responsible for all
consequential impacts due to late or untimely confirmations.
Kindly be guided accordingly
Yours faithfully
