Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 2), whereby the Engineer's Assistant informed that he is

"unable to comprehend the Contractor's intention with regard to the CMP submission due to the
conflicting statements in the referenced letter as follows:

Further to the above, the Contractor asserts that the Comprehensive Master Programmeis compliant
with Volume 4 - Employer's Requirements - General - Sub-Clause 3.5.2 and Sub - Clause 3.7.1 and
represents the Contractor's planned intention towards meeting the date(s) for Taking Over pursuant to
Sub-Clause 10.1 [Taking Over of the Works or Sections].

and

The submission does not assess the effect of actual or potential delays (e.g. Excavation Lateral Support
Works) which may affect the Completion date(s). The effect thereof shall be addressed in accordance
with the Contract provisions",

and requested the Contractor to clarify the "above conflicting statements and provide the Engineer's
Assistant with a clear and unambiguous statement confirming that the submitted Comprehensive
Master Programme is in compliance with the Key Interface and Take Over Oates pursuant to Section
9.2.5 of Volume 2."

The Contractor refutes the Engineer's Assistant's allegation and asserts that there are no conflicting
statements included in its letter reference 3).

The Contractor's statement with regards to the compliance of its submission with the provisions of
Volume 4
- Employer's Requirements - General - Sub-Clause 3.5.2 and Sub - Clause 3.7.1 is related to the fact that
the comprehensive Master Programme submission satisfied the requirements a) to j) of the said SubClause.

The Engineer's Assistant's approval of the Master Programme under reference 1) reinforces the
Contractor's statement and confirms that the Contractor's comprehensive Master Programme included
all the required information and supporting documents.

ALYSJ
joint venture

The Contractor's further statement that its submission does not assess the effect of actual or potential
delays which may affect the Completion Date(s), is evidently not conflicting with the provisions of
Volume 4 - Employer's Requirements - General - Sub-Clause 3.5.2 and Sub - Clause 3.7.1.

The Engineer's Assistant is reminded that any delay to progress and/or to completion shall be assessed
in accordance with the Contract provisions. To this extent, the Master Programme is updated (and/or
revised) and submitted monthly pursuant to Volume 3 - Conditions of Contract - Sub-Clause 8.3
[Programme] in conjunction with Volume 4 - Employer's Requirements - General - Sub-Clause 3.6
[Programme - Updates], Sub - Clause 3.7 [Sub Programmes below the Master Programme], Sub -Clause
3.8 [Supplementary Programmes List], and Sub - Clause 3.9 [Effects on Programme of Delays and
Change) [emphasis added].

Accordingly, the Contractor hereby confirms and upholds the caveat of the penultimate paragraph of
letter reference 3).

Concluding, the Engineer's Assistant's request for the provision of "a clear and unambiguous statement
confirming that the submitted Comprehensive Master Programme is in compliance with the Key
Interface and Take Over Dates pursuant to Section 9.2.5 of Volume 2", is redundant since the
Contractor's submission under letter reference 3) satisfies the requirements of Section 9.2.5 of Volume
2.

Yours faithfully,
