Subject Contractor Readiness for Rainy Season
Dear Sir,
PO Box 38811, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.
As the rainy season is imminent, the Contractor is required to implement all necessary precautions

and arrangements as stipulated within its Wet Weather Plan. The Contractor is urged to immediately
(but not limited to):
Cover all manholes and pits.
Suitably protect all excavations and completed works.
Arrange for submersible suction pumps on site as well as water tankers.
Remove accumulated sand at Asphalt Roads and Walkways.
Properly grade the logistics routes and rectify as needed.
The Contractor is required to deal with the above in high importance and confirm readiness once all
works are completed. Any damage to the Contractor's Works associated with the Contractor's lack of
preparation for the expected rains shall be the responsibility of the Contractor
Subject: NCR-00993- Landside Backfill Material
Dear Sir
Further to the above referenced subject the Contractor wishes to respond as follow.
We are not in agreement with the Engineer's statement in the above reference (1.) NCR, "The
Contractor
has failed to subrnit regular records pertaining to the sv.;e/1 index I S'vve/1 pressure of the backfill
rnaterial
containing Gypsum, in line with the recommended Earthwork Quality Control Testing recommendations
from your Consultant Geotechnical Specialists, Byrne Looby, to ensure that the backfill material
characteristics lie within the parameters contained within RFI-0401-1611."
In response to the above mentioned statement we wish to highlight that the swell index referred to is
only
a recommendation and is not a mandatory requirement. This understanding is further supported by the
Geotechnical Specialist's Earthwork Quality Control Testing recommendation under "Clause 6.3 Sample
Earthworks QC, stating that the testing program outlined in Table 4 is indicative and for information.
The Inspection and Test Plan for Earthworks reference (2.) item 2.2 Stockpile 2, outlines the material
testing and review procedure which was given a Code 02 status. The referred index swelling test was not
included or specified in this submittal forming part of or being a requirement for the inspection and
testing of earthworks.
Reference (3.) is further evidence of the Engineer's acceptance of our quality control procedures for
backfilling which received a Code 01 status. Under item 1.2.4 the material testing and review procedure
was specified which also did not include index swelling testing.
We further stress our concern regarding the free issue material in stockpile 2 which was certified
suitable
for use under RFI reference (4.). This same material is currently a contentious issue being investigated
under the Sewer Subsidence Airside for which we are still waiting further test results to determine the
root cause of settlement. The Engineer is hereby informed that we will not accept any liability or risk
associated with this material in our ongoing activities at the Landside area of the project in connection
with subsidence, replacement or rectification works associated with the results of the aforementioned
tests for stockpile 2 materials should it be classified unsuitable for use.
In the above referenced NCR (1.) the Engineer further requires us to conduct a sampling program to
verify
the necessary test data for each and every layer where the backfill containing the gypsum material has
been used and conduct the laboratory testing. Further to the above, we confirmed our full compliance
with the material testing protocol established and agreed upon by all parties previously, thus the

additional requirements of NCR reference (1.) constitute a variation and must be formally instructed
pursuant to Sub-Clause 11.3 (Instructions of the Engineer) and Sub-Clause 20.1.1(b) (Variations and
Adjustments) of the Conditions of Contract should the Engineer insist on proceeding with these tests.
Therefore, we request the Engineering to either issue further instructions or consider the issue closed
and
withdraw the NCR.
Yours faithfully
