Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0213
Engineer’s Unreasonable Comments Annotated on NCR-01159 to Carry out Full Surveys for all installed
HVAC Cladding at Level 1.0 Pier 1– Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in
order to integrate Change into Works
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A hereto, concern delays associated with the receipt of unreasonable
comments endorsed on NCR-01159 ref: (1), associated with installed HVAC Claddings located at Level
1.0 Pier 1 and the requirement for us to carry out “a site-wide report with programme for rectification”.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We have appreciable concerns in relation to unreasonable comments annotated on Non-Conformance
Report (NCR) No: MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01159 received on 20 November 2019 (Table 1 below), in
relation to the requirement for us to carry out a “site vide report with programme for rectification”.
Table 1
NCR ID Date Issued
Date Received Location
Description
Defect Description
MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01159 18-Nov-19
20-Nov-19
Level 1.0, Pier 1 HVAC Cladding Quality
“During site visits, CMA has observed non-compliant installed cladding as demonstrated in
attached site photos, which is not acceptable. The Contractor needs to take necessary corrective action
of these observations, as part of CAPA. Contractor to provide a site wide report with programme for
rectification.
•NCR not accepted for P1; refer to attached site photos, the contractor has not fully addressed the CMA
concerns
•This NCR has been previously partially accepted for P4 & P4 GHs
•NCR is still open […]
• […] Partially closed for P4 & P4 GHs.
• The Contractor to address the cases for all other areas included in the NCR and shall apply for final
close-out.”

The requirement for us to “… provide a site wide report with programme for rectification…” has been
triggered due to a combination of various issues, some of which occurred after the Heating Ventilation
Air Conditioning (HVAC) Cladding works had been completed. This is acknowledged by us within NCR01159 wherein we stated the following under the ‘Proposed Corrective Action’ (Figure 1 refers):
Figure 1
As noted in the comments recorded under the heading ‘Investigative and Root Cause Analysis’ (refer to
Figure 1 above), the “Duct cladding damages… [and] workmanship related issues [are alleged to have]
resulted from poor coordination of S/C [Subcontractors] and lack of supervision of site workforce”.
Further to which, and under the heading ‘Proposed Corrective Action’ it was confirmed that “Following
the action done in Pier 4 which was previously accepted by CMA, Pier 1 and related gatehouses have
been rectified in line with the advance site verification with CMA dated 16-Nov-19. This is for partial
closure for Pier 1 and related gatehouses only, remaining areas shall be applied separately later”.
In instances such as this, as well as other instances where there is evidence to suggest that poor quality
and workmanship has occurred in our works due to, for example, coordination issues and/or supervision
from our part, then it goes without saying that upon identification of the cause and extent of damages
caused and/or the reasons for any non-conformance, then the damage and non-conformance will be
remedied and rectified immediately, as has been successfully proven previously. Accordingly, you will
be requested to close out any such NCRs following completion of any associated remedial measures.
However, your request for us to undertake “a site wide report with programme rectification…” of all the
areas where HVAC cladding has been installed based on a single NCR regarding the quality of a limited
amount of cladding to one isolated location, is taking matters too far; and your request and expectation
for us to do this at this stage of the Project, is not only excessive and unreasonable, but unnecessary.
This is due to the fact that all of completed works to these areas are currently undergoing inspections.
Amongst other things, you have not taken cognisance of the myriad works/areas that are currently
being inspected [not just those noted above] and there is a distinct failure on your part to consider the
effects, ramifications as well as the practicalities involved if such unreasonable requests become
common place.
This issue as well as other similar issues in relation to NCRs that have been raised for specific matters
associated with the quality of our installed works and / or alleged non-conformances have been
discussed numerous times between us. Specifically, we have advised you that the processes specified
by the Contract associated with investigating whether the works are compliant or not, are currently
ongoing. This is established via the Work Inspection Requests (WIR), Commissioning Inspection
Requests (CIR), snagging, de-snagging, preparation of punch-lists and final handing over, all of which are
currently being carried out. Therefore, any quality issues, damages and / or poor workmanship in
relation to the installation of the HVAC cladding, will be found, examined and rectified.
Consequently, it is not practical at this stage of the Project [where all parties including yourself, should
be focussed on expediting and not hindering completion] to ask a full “site wide report” if you observed
a minor amount of damage to some HVAC cladding to a discrete, limited area of the Works.
Moreover, full site wide surveys / reports of this nature will require the allocation of a vast amount of
resources and will necessitate complicated coordination and permits from numerous other trades, and /
or other contractors [particularly at this stage of the Project, when as stated above, the focus should be
on completion], while inspections (i.e. WIR, CIR, snagging, de-snagging, punch-lists) are currently being
carried-out as per the Contract requirements for the same works. Therefore, we strongly advise and
reiterate that this is unnecessary, excessive and will only delay the Time for Completion of the Works.
We are also given to understand that further NCRs are continuing to be issued by you conveying similar
requirements to those described above. This will simply exacerbate matters further still.

For the avoidance of doubt, we reiterate that if damages are found into the works which we are liable /
accountable for during the WIR/CIR/snags etc. inspections, then we will allocate resources for the
rectification of all non-compliance and will ensure adherence to the target schedule for completion.
Therefore, we would argue that we are under no obligation to carry-out independent surveys for each
location where HVAC cladding has been installed as requested in your NCR comments. Nonetheless, if
you insist us to do so, then this will require a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO).
In which case, as you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required
and this appears to have been ignored. Hence this will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a
Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with independent surveys into the Works.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you issue us the necessary Instruction / VO, we are unable to proceed
with implementing such investigations etc., noted above and will continue to proceed in accordance
with the current WIR, CIR, snagging, de-snagging, punch-list processes and final handing over.
Yours faithfully,
