Subject:

Delay Notice – Resilient Flooring – Procurement of Materials

Dear Sir,
Further to our recent site meetings and in reference to the previously issued correspondences
concerning the above subject matter, we once again reiterate our concerns regarding your ability to
procure materials in line with site requirements. We understand from our recent site meeting (28th
February 2019) that you are now exploring alternative options with regards to financing your
procurement activities. However, we are yet to receive any formal responses to our previous letters
regarding your proposed mitigation measures for the recovery of the aforementioned delays.
Therefore, you are once again instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to
submit an Action Plan within seven (7) days from the receipt of this letter, detailing your proposed
mitigation measures. You will need to liaise with the Construction Team and respective section

engineers regarding specific work fronts to determine the required manpower. We formally place on
record our concerns over your capacity to sufficiently resource simultaneous work fronts with the
current manpower levels on site. Your response to this letter needs to clearly address these concerns.
We take this opportunity to remind you of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract - Clause
8.1.2 [Subcontractors Obligations]. Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 [Commencement of
Subcontract Works] provides that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or other subcontractors.
Please note that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the incurred delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with Subcontract clauses 10.3[Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 [Delay Damages] and other
relevant clauses.
This is for your immediate action and attention.

Yours faithfully,
