Subject:MTB Chilled Water Piping Rectification Works Due to Settlement of External CHW Piping –
Request for an Engineer's Instruction
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to several recent meetings, and in particular, meeting (1) attended by ADAC,
AECOM, TCAJV and PCE JV, related to the ‘Action Plan’ regarding the rectification works associated with
the Chilled Water Leakage at the MTB Pump Room (88.C.L00.0553).
We remind you that we previously notified you on this subject via our E-Notice No. 0152 (3), however
since then, the subject has been discussed at length and an ‘Action Plan’ has been agreed upon.
Via our email (4), we submitted the site survey report to you (based on TCAJV and AECOM joint survey),
which confirmed that the root cause of the leakage to the flange connection of the BTU meter in the
pump room, was the settlement of external chilled water piping which was installed by the MTA
Contractor (L&T), which is outside of our scope and responsibility.
Understanding the importance of the matter, we initiated the preparation of a job specific method
statement for the rectification of chilled piping within the pump room based on your verbal instruction,
submitted to you under cover of our submission (2). We are yet to receive a formal instruction from you
for this additional scope.
Following the ‘Action Plan’ meeting (1), ADAC/AECOM/CxA informed us that District Cooling Plant (DCP)
Contractor will top-up the chilled water preservation chemicals prior to commencement of our
rectification works.

As required by the DCP Contractor’s dosing plan, we were verbally instructed to isolate some of the
valves within MTB (to be identified by DCP Contractor). We are yet to receive a formal instruction from
you for this.
Although we are committed to providing the assistance to the DCP Contractor, we shall not be held
responsible for any consequences of this activity [such as losing preservation chemicals, time and cost
impact].
In addition, we accept no liability for the chilled water quality or for contamination of the chilled water
due to stagnant water and/or re-filling water as result of MTB rectification works.
As stated in the minutes of meeting (1)), we have proactively planned for the works to start during week
commencing 10 November 2019 however, this is subject to the DCP Contractor providing the chilled
water preservation chemicals.
Although we have acted cooperatively to date, we request that you issue an Engineer's instruction to
cover all the additional works we have initiated to date.
Furthermore, we require an instruction to proceed with the rectification works.
Our Subcontractor (PCE JV) will undertake this additional scope of work and we have requested that
they provide us with an estimate of the associated costs which we will duly submit for your
consideration. We will then be in a position to value of this rectification works which together with the
survey and excavation works, forms a variation to our scope.
Yours faithfully,
