
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer's Assistant's ("EA") request for further particulars at reference 4,the Contractor
hereby provides a detailed response within the attached table and the other attachments to this letter .

It is anticipated that the attached response/information addresses the further particulars requested.
However, should further justified questions remain, the Contractor will be happy to respond to same.

It is noted that the EA has provided within reference 4 (at items 6 and 7 of page 1) its responses to the
principles of the claim. Item 6 states: " The Engineer 's Instruction No. 53 is not a 'Variation' as defined in
Sub- Clause 1.1.6.17." Item 7 states: " The timing of the Engineer 's Instruction No. 53 did not cause
delay or disruption."

Unfortunately, these responses on the principles of the claim are not accompanied by any detailed
comments and reasoned argument as to why the EA has arrived at such negative conclusions. The EA is
reminded of the requirements of General Condition ("GC") 20.1.8 of Volume 3 of the Contract which
states "...the Engineer will respond with approval, or with disapproval and detailed comments. He may
also request any further particulars, but shall nevertheless give his response on the principles of the
claim within such time" (emphasis added). It is clear from this wording, that the response on the
principles of the claim must be accompanied by the EA's detailed comments as to how the EA has
arrived at its conclusion(s).

ALYSJ
joint venture

Nevertheless, the Contractor takes this opportunity of completely refuting the EA's aforementioned
responses on the principles of the claim and refers the EA back to the Contractor's Claim submission at
reference 5 which provides reasoned argument and evidence as to (1) why Engineer's Instruction No. 53

is a Variation pursuant to GC 1.1.6.17 and (2) how the said Instruction has caused delay to the
Contractor. Finally, the Contractor would like to remind the EA that the said Claim submission makes no
reference to "disruption" which the EA incorrectly refers to within its aforementioned Item 7 negative
response.

Yours faithfully,
