
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Instruction Nr 52 ("El") issued via reference 1 (received on 11
May 2015).

El Nr 52 instructed the Contractor to enter into a Subcontract with WS Atkins & Partners Overseas
("Atkins") for the Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing ("MEP") Design Services for "All Sections from Ras
Bu Abboud (Airport City North) to Al Aziziyah (Vil/aggio), Inclusive." This El also instructed the Contractor
to ir1clude within Atkins' MEP Subcontract, separate options, which, if desired, have to be exercised by
the Engineer via appropriate instructions to the Contractor pursuant to General Condition ("GC") 13.7.1,
for designing the MEP Services to Doha Zoo Station, Al Rayyan Station and to Muaither Station at preagreed prices. The pre-agreed prices for such options were based upon the Engineer's relevant
instructions being received by the Contractor from the Engineer by 31 August 2015. In addition, this is
the latest date for the MEP Design Services to be instructed to prevent delay to the Contractor in
achieving the timely completion of the Designs of.the 3 aforementioned Stations by their respective
Time(s) for Completion, i.e. by 31 August 2016.

Unfortunately , at the date of this Notice, the Contractor has received no such instructions, pursuant to
GC 13.7.1, for designing the MEP Services to Doha Zoo Station, Al Rayyan Station and to Muaither
Station. Consequently, the Contractor has suffered/will suffer delay to completion of the Designs of
Doha Zoo Station, Al Rayyan Station and Muaither Station and has incurred/will incur additional costs as
a result.

ALYSJ
joint venture

Accordingly, this letter serves (1) as the Contractor's "Extension" Notice pursuant to GC 8.4.2 that the
Contractor is entitled to extension(s) to the relevant Time(s) for Completion as a result of the late
instructions to execute the Provisional Sum MEP designs for the 3 aforementioned Stations and, (2) as
the Contractor's "Claim" Notice pursuant to GC 20.1.2 for the Contractor 's entitlement to the
aforementioned extensions of the Time(s) for Completion and for payment of the additional costs
incurred/to be incurred as a result of the Engineer's late instructions to execute the Provisional Sum
MEP designs for the 3 aforementioned Stations.

In accordance with GC 8.4.4 and GC 20.1.6, the Contractor is required to provide the Engineer with
details of the anticipated extensions to the Time(s) for Completion (via a Time Impact Analys is) and
details for the adjustment of the Contract Price for the additional costs incurred/to be incurred, within
28 days from this combined Notice, i.e. by 12 October 2015.

Please rest assured however that, notwithstanding the above, the Contractor will endeavour to mitigate
any delays and additional costs in accordance with its contractual obligations.

Yours faithfully,
