
Subject:

Re: Processor Level 0.1 - Installation of Metal Ceiling under Uncontrolled Environment

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) where you notify us that the Metal Ceiling panels at the
Central Processor 0.1 are being installed under uncontrolled environment. In addition, you further
inaccurately state that you cannot be held responsible for any requirement of cleaning /replacement of
panels.
We hereby remind you that you are responsible to ensure that the Ceiling Works are coordinated with
the Contractor and/or Other Subcontractors under Subcontract Clause 12.12 [Other Contractors and
Other Subcontractors]. You are also responsible for the protection of your works as the Subcontract is
for the supply, installation and rectification. Furthermore, please be informed that you are not entitled
to any extension of time nor additional cost as per Subcontract Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the
Contractor]
In addition, all photos/locations enclosed in your letter are from the Welcome Hall area ceiling L01 and
ceiling works in the Welcome Hall area were executed between January 2018 and May 2018. Your letter
referenced (1) above is dated 1st of August 2018 which makes your claim incorrect and baseless.
Moreover, during installation time we have provided the necessary temporary protection to all the
metal panels that are being installed. Considering the fact that some areas may not have been properly
sealed, we have sealed any GRC ceiling gaps /door and facade openings to control dust accumulation
and moisture levels. We have also provided periodic checks to reinstate the plastic protection, due to
third fix works and weather conditions. The area has been properly protected and the dust control has
been within acceptable ranges as AHU units are working in the areas that are photographed.
Alignment and final touch ups which were still not completed by you in August 2018 and to date are still
not completed, caused additional work to us due to the removal of the protection plastic cover.
In conclusion, we have provided the temporary protection and you cannot be waived from your
Contractual responsibilities. We hereby notify you that, we will not accept any liability, Claim, Extension
of Time to Subcontract Time for Completion, and the like, in conjunction with your alleged notification.

We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours faithfully,
