Subject: Head Office Overhead and Profit
Dear Sir,

Further to your letter referenced above, which is in response to our letter reference
MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000576 dated 20 June 2016, the Contractor hereby sets out its response
accordingly.
The Emden Formula is based upon using ‘actual’ audited accounts from the contractor’s head office.
The head office percentage is calculated by dividing the total overhead cost of the contractor’s
organisation as a whole by the total amount of turnover in the audited accounts. In consideration of
this, the Contractor only requested Mosart to present their audited accounts as evidence because they
unilaterally stated in their costs submissions that they are relying upon the Emden Formula.
Further, Mosart have stated that the Contractor’s following statement ignores the overhead percentage
explicitly set out in Annexure 1, Schedule 1 of the Subcontract Agreement:
“In the absence of actual cost information, the use of an uplift percentage substantiated by audited
financial accounts may be appropriate.”
The Contractor refutes Mosart’s position on this point and confirms that the intention of this statement
was to merely indicate what would be required by way of evidence if Mosart believed they were entitled
to head office overheads over and above the percentage stated in the Subcontract Agreement .
As Mosart have not provided any evidence to the contrary, the Contractor’s preliminary assessment
(issued via letter reference MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000580 dated 28 June 2018) calculates the potential
head office overhead costs using the 7% expressed as ‘overheads’ within Annexure 1 of the Subcontract
Agreement against the applicable prolongation costs. The principle behind this percentage uplift is
linked to the same approach currently being adopted by the Engineer and Employer against the
Contractor’s potential head office overhead claims. Notwithstanding this, in the event this principle is
not maintained by the Engineer and Employer, then TCA JV reserve their rights to reassess the
subcontractor’s claim for additional head office overheads.”
The Contractor would like to remind Mosart that their Subcontract Agreement expressly excludes
‘profit’ for any claim to additional Costs and subsequent adjustment of the Subcontract Price. For
further clarity on this point the Contractor refers Mosart to the definition of Costs under Clause 1.1 of
the Conditions of Subcontract.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor’s additional comments above are without prejudice and as
such are to be used independently to the assessment of the prolongation Cost submission and EOT
which will follow once Mosart have submitted full particulars etc. as described in the Contractor’s
aforementioned letter above and the further letters referenced within it.
Yours faithfully,
