Subject: Engineer's Delay Notification- Slow Progress to As-Built Submission
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter {1).
You are responding to our letter {3), the content of which highlighted that you have failed to
comment on the content of our previous correspondence which is specific and relevant to cited
events and factors affecting the planned completion and submittal of our As-Built submissions. In
keeping 1with your previous responses, your focus Is on the overall progress to 31 August 20l 9,
without1 mention of any acts of prevention by you, impacting the planned submission dates.
1

Forsaking unnecessary repetition, we again refer to our multiple E-Notices that have been raised
between 11 November 2018 and 04 September 2019 which make specific reference to events
impacting our submissions dates.
Our position remains unchanged and we st and by the detailed comments within our letter {4),
together with all E-Not ices.
In line with our recent correspondence on the subject, we reiterate our since re request that you
refrain from sending delay notifications on this matter but instead work with us to address not only
the backlog of As-Built Drawings which remain in your possession, but also to look to assist us, rather
than hinder us, in achieving Status Code 1 approval.
Bruce Neave
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0173
Damages to Carpets to Room 221 at Pier 2 Level 1.0 caused by the Employer’s Contractor (Al Hussain) Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records damages caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (Al Hussain) to previously installed
Carpets to Room 221 at Pier 2 Level 1.0, which requires rectification and as such requires an Engineer’s
Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs and emails (appended hereto at Annexe B to C) that
collectively serve to evidence damages having been caused to our previously installed Carpet to Room
221 at Pier 2 Level 1.0. Unfortunately despite the Carpet having been installed, inspected and handed
over by us through the WIR process, this has subsequently been damaged; and is directly attributable to
the Employer’s Other Contractor (Al Hussain).
Specifically, we draw your attention to the following:
•
The Carpet to Room 221 at Pier 2 Level 1.0 has been removed and damaged by the Employer’s
Other Contractor (Al Hussain);
•
Notwithstanding the fact that the Carpet has been handed over by us through the WIR process,
we put on record that a balance of snagging works remains at the concern room/area;
•
We note and acknowledge your email [November 05, 2019 11:45 AM] attached hereto,
notifying us that you have informed and instructed Al Hussain “… to stop [removing carpets] and
without NOC not to touch any base-build installations”.

In support of the foregoing, we provide the following attachments:
1.
Annex A: This narrative providing a ‘Description of the Event’;
2.
Annex B: ‘Photos / Images Reference’; and
3.
Annex C: Email Correspondences.
We wish to put on record that the foregoing events are not of our doing or responsibility, and any
rectification / remedial works necessarily required to re-install the damaged Carpet to Room 221 at Pier
2 Level 1.0 at this stage will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged services
noted above, will require the issuance of a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid
down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
Furthermore, we request you to take necessary action to prevent any further occurrence of damages to
our previously handed-over Works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
