Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0050
Security Management Information System (SMIS) Graphical User Interface (GUI) – Outstanding
Confirmation of Requirement for 2D / 2.5D Maps
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described herein
may cause delay [and/or disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same
The Event(s):
On 28 August 2018, under letter ref (1), we wrote to advise you that we had yet to receive confirmation
from you as to how to proceed with the SMIS mapping and specifically whether you wished to integrate
either 2D or 2.5D maps into the Management Information System (SMIS) Graphical User Interface (GUI).
This letter was generated on the basis that despite the SMIS maps being discussed at a meeting held on
22 April 2018 and subject to the Employer’s e-mail dated 23 April 2018, plus a Live Demonstration
(showing multiple map options integrated into the SMIS GUI) held in April 2018, and detailed in an email dated 14 May 2018 from the Specialist SMIS subcontractor, ATLAS, all of which were referenced
and attached to letter ref: (1), we had yet to be informed of which option you and / or the Employer
wished to implement.

At this point, it is worth noting that although Article 2.7.G ‘Site and Building Visualization’ of
Specification Section 281100 ‘Security Management Information System’ calls for 3D visualisation, we
understand that it was the Employer who was desirous that 2D [or 2.5D] mapping shall be implemented
on the SMIS GUI – this having been ‘triggered’ by demonstrations carried out by ATLAS proving that 3D
maps were unusable (evident from the Employer’s e-mail dated 23 April 2018). This E-Notice No. 0050
therefore is not so much concerned with any purported ‘change’ in mapping requirements per se, but
rather centres on delay in us being issued with confirmation from you / the Employer as to whether we
are required to implement 2D or 2.5D maps and the ramifications of the delayed decision making
process on completion of the Works.
Further explanation as to the history of events associated with this particular ‘event’ follows:
It was because of a failure on your part to respond to our letter ref: (1) that we issued ‘Likely Delay
Notice No. SAA8 – 001’ by way of our letter dated 9 October 2018, ref: (2). In addition to this further
letter reminding you of the events described above, we informed you the SMIS Initial Site Acceptance
Test (ISAT) test could not take place as the MAPs, being an integral part of the test, had not yet been
developed because a decision had yet to be made on whether 2D or 2.5D maps were required.
Accordingly, we urged you to reply with a decision on this by 14 October 2018, but unfortunately you
failed to do so. You did however reply by way of letter ref: (3) advising us that we would be informed of
the Employer’s decision “shortly”, but meanwhile rejected ‘Likely Delay Notice No. SAA8 – 001’ on the
basis this ‘event’ pre-dates the effective date of SAA8 and is captured under SAA8 Clause 1.7.2 and SAA8
Clause 1.7.4. That said however, and notwithstanding your position on this, you elected to remind us
that the mechanism for notifying you of delaying events and other risk items such as this is provided for
under SAA8 Clause 2.2.5.
Despite us writing to you again on 20 October 2018 vide letter ref: (4) contesting your rejection of ‘Likely
Delay Notice No. SAA8 – 001’ for the reasons set out therein, you continued to rebut this in your letter
ref: (5) dated 24 October 2018. It was however unfortunate, that notwithstanding our respective
positions, the Employer’s decision and confirmation of the requirement for 2D or 2.5D Maps remained
outstanding – despite you advising that we would be informed “shortly”. This was the case in October
2018 and remains the case at the time of preparing this E-Notice No. 0051, which is 24 February 2019,
i.e. four months later.
Meanwhile, the matter was discussed at the Risk Committee Meetings. This includes the meeting held
on 11 November 2018, the Meeting Minutes at ref: (6) refers, which records that ‘ADAC expects to
confirm map requirements by end Nov’. Clearly the Employer’s intentions failed to materialise by this
time also. The Meeting Minutes at ref: (6) also records that in the intervening period, in an effort to
mitigate delays to the Works, we, in conjunction with ATLAS, elected to proceed with 2D maps to limited
locations (i.e. to Pier 4 for example), in order to avoid reworks once the actual mapping requirements
are confirmed.
The implementation of the maps on the SMIS for the Project is crucial as it is an essential prerequisite
and must be in place prior populating the SMIS GUI with the circa 13,000 end devices. The requirements
of the Employer must therefore be advised forthwith to avoid further delay and re-work to completed
areas.
Potential Impact:
The delay in us being informed of the Employer’s preferred mapping requirements (i.e. 2D or 2.5D), will,
if allowed to continue, affect our ability to achieve the completion dates for the SMIS system
configuration, SMIS ISAT and all SMIS related interface testing activities, End User training, Performance
Testing and Final Systems Acceptance. Consequently, this will invariably impact on achievement of
Milestone MS09B.
Action Required:

We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Because of the potential seriousness of this matter, we urge you to advise the Employer’s requirements
for the SMIS mapping as soon as possible, irrespective of your position outlined in your previous letter
ref: (5). In which respect, we maintain the contention that our request for confirmation of the
Employer’s mapping requirements is tantamount to a ‘request for information’ and on the basis a
response to the same has not been ‘issued by the Employer and/or the Engineer’, despite our repeated
requests that he / you does so, then this falls outside of the ‘Included Circumstances’ pursuant to Clause
1.7.4 of SAA8.
Consequently, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described
herein.
Yours faithfully,
