
Dear Sir,
This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1for the Contractor to submit a quotation (both as to price and
any possible delay) for the Variation "Swapping Room Size Requirements for the Telecom Safety Police
and Tel/IT Third Parties Room" as outlined below;
1)
The Employer's Requirements Volume 6, Sub-Clause 14.3.4 'Telecom', the Sub-clause
14.3.4.3.b.i) currently states that;
•
One room "Telecom Safety Police" - operated and maintained by Police and Fire Brigade with a
room size of minimum 12m2•
The above Employer's Requirementsis now modified as;

•
One room "Telecom Safety Police" - operated and mainta ined by Police and Fire Brigade with a
room size of minimum 30m2•

2)

The Employer's Requirements Volume 6, Sub-Clause 14.3.4 'Telecom', the Sub-clause

14.3.4.3.c.i) currently states that;

•
One room 'Tel/IT Third Parties' - operated and maintained by Third Parties (e.g. Public Mobile
Providers Qtel & Vodafone, Suppliers of video advertisement etc.) with a room size of minimum 1Sm2•
The above Employer's Requirements is now modified as;
•
One room 'Tel/IT Third Parties' - operated and maintained by Third Parties (e.g. Public Mobile
Providers Qtel & Vodafone, Suppliers of video advertisement etc.) with a room size of minimum 12m2
3)
Appendix 1:Generic I- Type Underground Stations of the Employer's Requirements, Volume 6,
Sub-Clause 14.3. 'General Technical Room Requirements' currently indicates that;
•

Minimum space required for items 36 and 38 are 30m2 and 12m2 respectively.

Modify the above Appendix 1:'Generic I-Type Underground Stations' as;
•

Minimum space required for items 36 and 38 are 12m2 and 30m2 respectively.

4)
Appendix 2: Generic X -Type Underground Stations of the Employer's Requirements, Volume 6,
Sub-Clause 14.3. 'General Technical Room Requirements' currently indicates that;
•

Minimum space required for items 154 and 156 are 30m2 and 12m2 respectively.

Modify the above Appendix 1:'Generic I-Type Underground Stations' as;
•
Minimum space required for items 154 and 156 are 12m2 and 30m2 respectively. The
Contractor is required to submit the quotation within 5 days of this direction.
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer’s Assistant’s letters reference 1) and 2) in connection to the
interface process vis-a-vis the main incomer telecommunication fiber optic backbone requirement for
third party operators such as Ooredoo, Vodafone and QAF. For the avoidance of doubt, and with
reference to the correspondence exchanged thus far, the Contractor sets out its position as follows:

The Contractor notes that the Engineer’s Assistant’s reference to clauses 14.3.4.2 (c) and 14.3.4.5 (b) of
Volume 6 of the Contract within letter reference 1) is out of context. Both the aforesaid clauses impose
the requirement of 30% spare space within the Telecom / IT rooms and are wholly irrelevant to the
number and / or size of the telecommunication sleeves to the station box. Consequently, the Engineer’s
Assistant conclusion within letter reference 1) that by following option 2 with eight (8) sleeves of
100mm or 150mm each would “allow the Contractor….to comply with the Employer’s Requirements” is
void.

The Contractor further contests the Engineer’s Assistant’s assertion within the closing paragraph of
letter reference 2). The Contractor has provided ample evidence to the Engineer’s Assistant as to the
extent of conflicting information that was received from the three (3) different Interfacing Parties and
considers that it has encountered significant difficulties in obtaining the necessary information pursuant
to Clause 24.4.4 of Volume 4 of the Contract.
Following receipt of the Contractor’s letter reference 3), and after having reviewed the matter
thoroughly, the Engineer’s Assistant has directed the Contractor via letter reference 2) to provide three
(3) sleeves to the station box, 150mm diameter each. It is therefore incorrect to suggest within letter
reference 2) that “notwithstanding Engineer’s Assistants recommendation, Contractor retains all risks
associated with his interface obligations”.

The Contractor’s position is that the Engineer’s Assistant’s “recommendation” within letter reference 2)
is in fact a direction as to the “required action” pursuant to Clause 24.4.4 of Volume 4 of the Contract
and the associated risk lies with the Employer and not the Contractor. As a matter of fact, the
Contractor has already incorporated the aforementioned direction of letter reference 2) in its design
prior to the receipt of letter reference 1) which proposed an alternative “recommendation” i.e. the socalled option 2.

To help prevent this issue from developing into a delay and / or disruptive event to the progress of the
Works, the Contractor respectfully requests the Engineer's Assistant's conclusive direction pursuant to
Clause 24.4.4 of Volume 4 of the Contract as soon as practically possible. The implementation of any
alternative direction which renders the Engineer’s Assistant’s previous direction of letter reference 2)
obsolete would clearly constitute a Variation and upon receipt of the Engineer’s Instruction, the
Contractor shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13 [Variations and Adjustments] of
Volume 3 of the Contract.

Unless otherwise instructed, the Contractor considers that it has fully complied with its interface
obligations in addition to the associated Employer’s Requirements and shall proceed with its MEP space
proofing design development and coordination of MEP services on the basis of the direction of letter
reference 2).

Yours faithfully,
