Subject:

Re: Application for Taking Over and Release of Retention Monies

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters referenced (1) and (2) above and our discussion regarding the subject matter
and we hereby inform you of the following:
Please be informed that pursuant to the conditions under paragraph 8 [Retention] of Schedule 11
[Payment Terms] of the Subcontract, you are not entitled to the release of the Retention amount
against a corresponding Retention Bond as stated in your letter reference (1) above.
In regards to your request as per your letter reference (2) wherein you have applied for a Taking Over
Certificate (TOC), please note that the TOC is subject to the Engineer’s issuance. Pursuant to the
Subcontract Clause 18.1.1 [Taking Over of the Subcontract Works and Milestones] “Subject to clause
18.2 (Taking Over of Parts of the Subcontract Works) a Taking Over Certificate shall only be issued on
Substantial Completion […]”. Moreover, the Subcontract Clause 18.1.8 clearly specifies that
“Notwithstanding the provisions of this clause 18.1, the Subcontractor agrees that receipt by the
Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the relevant part of the Works from the Engineer is
a condition precedent for the issuance by Contractor of the relevant Taking Over Certificate for the
relevant part of the Subcontract Works, unless otherwise agreed”. Accordingly, please be informed that
the Engineer has not yet issued any TOC for any of the parts of the works for any of the Subcontractors
in the Project. Consequently, a response would be provided only after the Engineer provides its
Determination, issuance and/or a response to the same.
In view of the above, please be informed that the return of the Retention Bond and the release of the
retention monies are subject to the issue of TOC for Substantial Completion. Consequently, since the
TOC for Substantial Completion has not been issued by the Engineer yet, as stated above, we are unable
to proceed with the issuance of the same. Therefore, once the aforementioned is issued by the Engineer
we shall proceed with the provisions provided within the Subcontract and described herein to release
the Retention Bond and the retention amounts accordingly.

In response to your statement made in your letter referenced (2) above, regarding the expenses
associated with the renewal of Insurance Policies, Bonds and Warranties, we would suggest that you
continue submitting any costs related to your prolongation costs to ensure that all relevant evidence is
put on record for evaluation.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:List of Agreed RFVO’s - Finishes
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1) above, regarding
the issuance of pending Variation Orders, we hereby enclose a list of the RFVO’s which a response for
issuance of Variation Orders respectively is long overdue.
As stated in our letter reference (1) the attached list of agreed RFVO’s has been submitted in order for
the Engineer to issue Variation Orders respectively. However, to date no Variation Order has been
issued for the listed RFVO’s, accordingly.
We once again reiterate and kindly request your early determination and issuance of the Variation
Orders pursuant to the Contract Clauses 20.3.2 [Variation Procedure] and 11.4.1 [Determinations],
within 14 days of receipt of this letter as required by Clause 11.4.1.
We hereby request for your immediate and necessary action for the issuance of these Variation Orders.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:

Delay Notice Nr 2 – Remaining Cut Pieces at Ceiling in CP2 L0.0/L0.1

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to our letter referenced (1), we put on record
once again your persistent failure in the completion of your works in a timely manner. We also note that
our instructions provided via our said letter have not been complied, particularly the allocation of
sufficient manpower. As a result, we reiterate that the works at CP2 - L0.0/L0.1 highlighted in the
enclosed drawing need your urgent attention.
In light of the above and as discussed in our letter referenced (1), we hereby instruct you pursuant to
Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to take immediate action accordingly.

This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Yours faithfully,
