Subject:

Change Management Hourly Rates Breakdown & Substantiation

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter referenced (5) and in continuation to our letters referenced (3) and (4) above,
please note that the Engineer’s Instruction 323 (EI) given via letter referenced (2) states that the
resources allocated for the Change Management is for the “completion of all design items”, meaning
that, they are not limited to the Briefing Pack meetings, but up until the delivery of shop drawings
accordingly.

In view of the above, and your request as per your letter reference (5), in which you are requesting our
advice on the process to submit the report for the works done at your plant and offices related to the
foregoing, we hereby request you to submit (in the required format) all timesheets for the resources
used in regards to the Briefing Pack No 39 meetings, in order for us to review and forward the same to
the Engineer for its review.
Please note that the timesheets should only include the resources related to the EI 323 and
subsequently to the Contractor’s Instruction(s). Any (if any), associated cost arising as a result of this EI
323 shall be dealt with separately and shall be submitted independently.
To conclude, once you submit the timesheets as stated above for our review, signature and approval
they will then be forwarded to the Engineer for review. Please be informed, that all timesheet are
subject to Engineer’s approval. Moreover, please note that, the timesheets will be forwarded back to
you after the Engineer’s review and approval in order for you to submit a RFVO taking in consideration
the Engineer’s comments (if any).
We notify you that we reserve our rights under the Subcontract Agreement and inform you that we shall
not be responsible for any delays or disruptions, or any cost it may incur arising out of or in connection
with the works mentioned herein.
This is for your kind information and further action.
Subject: Delay Notice No. 1004 - Delays to Airport Operation Systems Workstations Installation due to
Furniture layout Design Availability (Likely Delay Notice No. Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim
Dear Sir
On 8 January 2018, the Contractor submitted Likely Delay Notice ('LON'} No. 2727 (ref: 1) in
consideration that the outstanding furniture layout design for the AOS Workstations has the potential to
adversely affect or delay the execution of the Works.
In relation thereto, the Contractor records that to date, and despite the issuance of LON No. 2727, the
design information still remains outstanding. Annex A hereto provides details of the activities affected
by the absence of the design information in accordance with Baseline Programme Rev. 10.4. Annex A
clearly demonstrates that the remaining durations to complete the installation and set-up activities
identified therein will soon be insufficient to complete the works. Therefore, Engineer's continued
failure to provide the furniture layout design information is continuing to prevent the Contractor from
coordinating and finalising the approval of typical installation drawing(s). Absent any action on the
Engineer's I Employer's Design Consultant's part, this will impact upon cable routing works, furniture
installation and site readiness, plus associated works, which will impact upon the Contractor's ability to
achieve inter alia Milestones MS9A.S, MS9A.6, and Milestones MS09B and MS10. The Contractor
contends that this constitutes a breach of Contract or an act of prevention on the part of the Employer's
Personnel.

Therefore in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, the Contractor
hereby notifies the Engineer of its entitlement to claim:
(i} An extension of the Time for Completion of the Works pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii} An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or, in
the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
Interim and I or final details of the Time impacts and adjustment to the Contract Price, will be provided
in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a}, (b) and (c).
Subject: Request for Confirmation of Variation Order Pursuant to COC Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b)
for RFEI/0401/0300- Power Supply for Condensate Pumps of Blower Coils
Dear Sir,
With reference to the Engineer's response to RFEI/0401/0300 via the letter reference: {1) above, please
be advised that the information, comments, clarifications and/or instructions {the Instruction) contained
therein constitute an instruction of a Variation.
The Instruction requires to have a combined power supply for BCU and condensate pump and omit the
fused connection unit {FCU) along with the separate power supply for the condensate pump, as per the
sketch drawings reference ESK-1871 and ESK-1872.
In light of the above, we consider that, the Instruction contains a Variation that is not in the form of, or
which has not been confirmed in writing by the Engineer by way of, a formal Variation Order.
The Engineer has stated in its letter reference: {1) above, that the Engineer would prepare and issue an
Engineer's Instruction if the response to RFEI has resulted a potential change. However, the Engineer has
failed to issue the required Engineer's Instruction, until the date of this letter. As such, we had to carry
out
the works in accordance with the current IFC information, in compliance with the provision under
SubClause
20.1.5 [Right to Vary] of the Conditions of Contract and in compliance with the programme
requirements. Subsequently, ADDC has rejected these installations and commented that, "CE circuit
looping not allowed" {please refer to the Enclosure-1).
Considering the above and in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4 {b) of the Conditions of Contract, we
again request the Engineer to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's
instruction
and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a), within seven
(7)
days of the receipt of this letter, in order to mitigate any further delays or further abortive works.
Unless and until the Engineer takes this required action, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract, we would not be able to proceed with the implementation of the above
described
Variation. We shall not be responsible for any delays or disruptions to the Works, or the cost of any
abortive works, as a result of the Engineer's late response to our request for confirmation of Variation.
Subject: Change Management Hourly Rates Breakdown & Substantiation

Dear Sir,
We write pursuant to the Subcontract and the correspondences referenced above and with rega rds to
the "Change Management Hourly Rates" subject matter. We have requested in our earlier letter
referenced (2) above to provide detailed breakdown of the rates together with adequate substantiation
indicating how they were calculated in order to prevent any delay or rejection of your invoice for
payment, but till date we have not received.
In reference to the above, now the Engineer has given us a time line for submitting all outstanding rate
breakdown with complete substantiation/supporting documents for the submitted change management
hourly rates.
To help you in resolving the above issue we are enclosing the Change Management hourly rate build-up
guideline that can be adjusted to suit your requirements. Also, please note that all pages of the
documents shall be stamped with company seal.
Please ensure that all hourly rates and substantiations are submitted within two (2) days of you
receiving this letter and failure to do so will result in AECOM determining the evaluation as zero cost.
This is for your information, record and further urgent action.
Subject Briefing Pack Change Management Day Work Rates
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above mentioned subject and your letter ref. MTB./TCA/GIFFIN/L/000071 dated
27th July 2015, kindly find attachment of Manning List with hourly, daily and monthly rate basis with
salary breakdown.
This is for your information and records.
Subject: Request for Change Management Day Work Rates
Dear Sir,
We write pursuant to the Letter of Award Agreement referenced above and with regards to the "Change
Management Day Work Rates" subject matter. We have requested you to work out details for various
Briefing Packs and as instructed through our Contractor's Instructions, you are also required to attend
necessary workshops to progress on the joint design basis in order to achieve the required level.
Therefore, we invite you to provide the name of the persons/staff of your organization entrusted with
that development. In addition, we require the day work rates per hour applicable to each person for the
various positions to allow you to claim for payment.
These day work rates should be provided together with adequate substantiation indicating how they
were calculated in order to prevent any delay or rejection of your invoice for payment.
This is for your information, record and further necessary action
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Prequalification Approval

Please be advised that the Engineer has reviewed your Prequalification Submittal and made an Approval
Status of Code 2 with comments as per attached.
Kindly review the comments and expedite submission of the required documentation without any delay.
This is for your information, record and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
