Dear Sir,

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of letter reference 1) and hereby informs the Engineer's Assistant
that, pending execution of the as-built survey for all the Tunnel sections, the as-built Tunnel data and
the wriggle alignment designs shall be done using the current chainages and introducing
additionalchainage break points, as appropriate. These will be submitted to DVE for certification and to
the Engineer's Assistant for review.

Upon completion of the above mentioned activities, and once the Contractor has received the chainage
values at the interface points with Msheireb Station and with Blue Line at Ras Bu Abboud, the wriggle
alignment drawings will be revised and submitted adopting the new chainage system which shall be
continuous without any chainage breaks.

In addition, the Engineer's Assistant is hereby informed that only alignment drawings and features on
the alignment drawings will be updated to reflect the new chainage, and that a covering report
explaining the relationship between the new and old chainage will accompany the final set of drawings.

The As-built Data as described above can only be submitted to DVE for certification and to the
Engineer's Assistant in order to obtain SONO, prior to performing the last update of the chainage "once
the as-built track alignment has been received from MS/ Contractor".

The Contractor further records that the dates for receiving the as-built track alignment from the Railway
Systems Contractor (MMHKT) are unknown and hereby requests the Engineer's Assistant to clarify the
timing for the last item from the Engineer's Instruction (E.I.) no.139

In order to complete the above Works in the necessary time-frame, the Contractor kindly requests the
Engineer's Assistant to:
Clarify if all the chainages in all the directions will be positive, meaning we will have no negative
chainages, neither from Msheireb to Al Aziziyah nor from Msheireb to Ras Bu Abboud;
Provide chainage values at the interface points with Msheireb Station and with Blue Line at Ras Bu
Abboud;
Clarify when the Contractor will receive the as-built track alignment from MMHKT. We remain at your
disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Dear Sir,
This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1 for the Contractor to submit a quotation that shall include
both
price and any potential time impact for provision of the as-built drawings in accordance with the new
alignment baseline as outlined hereunder:
1.

Setting Msheireb station (centre of platforms Gold and Green/ Red) as chainage 0+000

2.
Calculating chainage from Msheireb with positive increment into all directions of the Network
and elimination of chainage gaps

3.

Using the same start chainage at line branches

4.
Introducing chainage 0+000 for Blue Line at Al Sadd Station with positive increments to north
and south

5.
Incorporation of the chainage into theoretical as-built alignment and preparation of the as-built
drawing based on the new chainages
6.
Last update of the chainage once the as-built track alignment has been received from
MSIContractor. (on\y minimum deviations expected that do not affect the Civil D&B as-built drawings)
The Contrrctor shall submit the quotation within 14 days from receipt of this direction.

Yours faithfully,
