Subject :

Cloisall Disruption Claim

Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11550/18 dated 22 February 2018 in
response to our letter reference MTB/TCA/CLOISALL /L/001220 dated 05 February 2018 whereby we
rejected your claim for ‘Wall Cladding Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 19,832,798 submitted to us
via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017. We rejected your
claim on the basis that it is of a global nature and lacking in the requisite detail and in this regard also
advised you of what would be necessary in order for us to consider any subsequent (revised) claim for
disruption.
Regrettably you letter is largely a reiteration of your submitted claim and as such does not alter our view
that you have not discharged the burden of proof regarding your asserted entitlement to claim and/or
that your valuation represents the actual additional cost that you have incurred solely and directly as a
result of disruptive events for which we are contractually liable to compensate you.
For the record, we do not accept that the productivity that you allege was achieved for Ceiling Panels
may in any event be used as the basis for the productivity that you could have achieved for the Wall
Cladding. Moreover, if that were acceptable, then a 3 month sample (in particular where the
productivity of one month seemingly has a disproportionate and beneficial impact on the average) and
an unsupported “reduction factor” of 12% would not be acceptable. The contemporary records adduced
to evidence the alleged productivity are also lacking in the detail necessary for objective verification.
Our own view is that you grossly underestimated the complexity of the Wall Cladding works and as a
consequence seek redress through a spurious disruption claim. In this regard, we will conduct our own
analysis of the productivity achieved for the Wall Cladding works as identified in grids/panels as a
sample which was not the subject of any of the alleged events. We have also recorded in our several
delay notices regarding wall cladding works that you have failed to achieve the targeted or the planned
dates due lack of manpower, poor material, delivery sequence and uncontrolled material segregation
which also affected the follow on trades.
You also appear to seek to include in the disruption claim items that you failed to notify and/or claim as
variations; that is, resources utilised to implement design changes and the separate scaffold that you say
you were forced to provide as a consequence of our instruction to dismantle the birdcage scaffolding.
We cannot however and will not be held to account for your failure to comply with your contractual
obligations regarding variation and the associated waiver of entitlement. Notwithstanding the
contractual position, we note that you have not adduced any evidence of actual cost of the scaffold that
you say was deployed.
Finally, we note that you cannot identify the impact of the events that you allege caused disruption due
to the complexity of the project, concurrent events and the like. Whilst acknowledging that this is
difficult, you will also no doubt also appreciate that the simple global claim that you have proffered
covers over a multitude of Subcontractor risk items and as such is equally difficult for us to accept.
For the avoidance of any doubt, our valuation of your submitted claim is nil.
Yours faithfully,
