Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0238
Requirement for Additional Fire Extinguishers Introduced to the MTB Works by Messrs Profire – Request
for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters recorded in Annex A described changes required by the Employer’s Fire Safety Consultant
(Profire) associated with the requirement to install additional Fire Extinguishers to various areas and
levels of the MTB, which will require a valid EI and VO in order for us to integrate the same into the
Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A

Description of the Event
In a period broadly occurring between November 2019 until to date (April 2020), we have received a
series of Mechanical Work Completion Inspection (MCI) reports of the Fire Suppression Systems
generated by the Employer’s Fire Safety Consultant (Messrs Profire). These include the MCI reports
listed in Annex B.
We note however that the MCI reports recorded in Annex B identify Profire’s requirement for a
significant number of additional Fire Extinguishers (FE) to be installed to various levels and areas of the
MTB.
However, the installation of the Fire Extinguishers for the Project has already been completed by us in
accordance with the IFC Design, consisting of both Specification and IFC Drawings as well as approved
Shop Drawings, all as previously prepared and approved by you and the Employer’s Design Consultant.
Note for example that paragraph 2.1 E of Specification Section 104416 (‘Fire Extinguishers’) expressly
states that we are required to install FE as “… indicated on Drawings, for each location…” as follows:
“Locations: Provide extinguisher of types indicated on Drawings, for each location.
1. Provide two extinguishers in fire protection cabinets where indicated on Drawings.
2. Provide one fire extinguisher in each extinguisher mounting bracket FPE-01”.
Profire’s request for us to provide additional fire extinguishers represents an attempt at changing the
existing IFC requirements and an attempt at varying our scope of Works without adopting the
contractual mechanism for instigating any change in design, this will require the provision of revised IFC
Drawings and an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction/Variation Order for us to integrate such change
into the Works.
We therefore take this further opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause
2.31 of Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we
are not to proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued
first. In which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change to the
Project; this is only after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us
beforehand.
Therefore given that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and it is
patently clearly this has been ignored, then this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI)
and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the
Works.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the express
requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will
continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
