Subject Maintenance Concerns during Construction Stage
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) regarding the poor maintenance of the MEP
equipment and highlight the following concerns that require an urgent action by the Contractor:
1. It is evident that there is no clearly defined transfer of responsibility within the TCAJV's
organization namely between the FM team and the construction teams for maintenance. This
has resulted in situations where the ownership/ responsibility for the maintenance activities
appears to have been unclear to both teams and, as a consequence, the maintenance has
been missed.
The Contractor is therefore requested to provide an outline document detailing
responsibilities by area/system and forward the same to the Engineer. The Contractor is to
also clarify where maintenance has been missed what impact this could have on the
respective system's warranty (s).
2. There is an ongoing reliance on "manual" operation of commissioned plant and equipment,
and this places the equipment at risk as many of the automatic protection features do not
function correctly when the equipment is over-ridden. The Contractor shall generate a
detailed plan for re-instatement of automatic control with immediate effect. Where
equipment is to be retained in a non-operational state, this should be achieved via correct
isolation using automatic control systems that are provided for this purpose.
3. As many examples have been recorded of poor maintenance (e.g. CHW Flushing, Equipment
Failures, AHU/HVAC Equipment Condition, etc.), we note that this raises concern regarding
the condition of the equipment and systems at handover and the associated warranties. The
required rectification and inspection of these equipment generates an unwarranted drain of
TCAJV, Employer's/Engineer's and CXA's resources which does not support the drive towards
project completion. As we are moving towards the final stages of the Project, we still note
widespread concerns with maintenance and the subsequent performance reduction may
impact the completion of the Project. All of the issues raised relating to maintenance require
a corrective action ranging from cleaning or site repair to replacement of damaged
equipment. With the current project delays, these impacts could not be entertained [refer to
the attached document].
4. As many areas are moving towards completion and many of the final finishes are being
installed, we advise that these finishes generally require specific environmental conditions to
avoid damage and/or loss of warranties. The observed maintenance failures relating to the
HVAC system operation increases the probability of issues relating to finishes manifesting. We
recommend an immediate review of the TCAJV's plan for implementation of the HVAC system
operation within the building and would advise that the current conditions within the building
are clearly out with the requirements of these finishes.
5. An urgent refresh of the maintenance plans should be undertaken to align the transfer of
responsibility (identified in Point 1 above) with the requirements for ongoing operation and
maintenance in the increasingly completed environments. This plan should clearly identify:
a. Definition of the procedures/pre-requisites for handover of responsibility
b. Responsibility for maintenance defined by system/area, including organization charts
with names/roles

c. Equipment schedules with current status (e.g. run/not run/etc.)
d. PPM Schedules relating to equipment schedules
e. Reactive and preventive maintenance procedures and identified teams' responsibilities
f. Sample reports for formal maintenance reports and also reactive and preventive
maintenance reports
g. Details of transfer of responsibility for permit approval/permit process
6. At present, the maintenance procedures that have been produced have been done separately
for each of the main sub-contractors (PCEJV and ANEL). We suggest that the Contractor
immediately generates a single holistic maintenance document that will allow for the overall
management of the process and integration of maintenance activities with the ongoing
commissioning and construction works. This single plan should include maintenance for all
plant and equipment, regardless of sub-contractor or supplier and should cover not only the
MEP equipment i.e. to include for LET, BHS and various Airport related Systems etc.
The above concerns with maintenance have been an issue of discussion in all recent Risk Committee
Meetings and at these meetings, it is understood that the Contractor agrees with the above concerns,
however an action is yet to be taken to remedy this situation.
The above is not an exhaustive list and there are further issues related to maintenance that would
need to be considered. The Contractor is requested to immediately proceed with the required actions
in order to rectify the above and set up a meeting with your construction, commissioning, and FM
Teams along with the Employer, the Engineer and CxA representatives in order to provide a clear way
forward regarding how these issues and concerns will be resolved before the rest of the building
reaches the same level of completion of Pier 4.
We note that any delays associated with the above concerns shall be solely attributable to the
Contractor and we hereby reserve the Employer's rights pursuant to Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of
Contract for any damages the Employer may incur.
Yours faithfully
