Subject Substantiation of Prolongation Costs-HOA 5th March 2015
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of the Contractor's response in letter (3) above, to the Engineer's letter (2)
above
requesting further detailed particulars of cost to further support your claim relating to 10 months
prolongation.

We acknowledge that some cost data has been received by way of the electronic files recently provided
under letter (4) & (5) above, however this only covers selected parts of sections 3 (Staff); section 5
(PMV);
section 8 (Bond and Insurance Costs) and section 9 (Other BIM Costs), all of which 'per se' we raise
further
queries and requests, as detailed below.
Please note, that all references within the following correspondence to additional Particular's,
substantiation, and justification etc, unless otherwise noted, refers to the period of time of June 2014
to March 2015, being the period identified within the Engineer's correspondence (6) above, as the 10
months prolongation that the effect of the delay was impacted.
Section 3.1-Staff from Partners (Secondment System)
The values provided against the Contractor's "Staff Costs" are based upon the Contractor's "Band
Rates". It
appears these 'Band Rates' have been agreed between the three Contractor companies as a convenient
way to collect financial information, however, they do not represent 'Cost' as is defined in the Contract.
It is fact that the arrangement between the three companies ('joint venture'), itself, does not exist as a
legal entity under the Contract. For clarity, the "Contractor" as defined under the Contract, consists of
three separate companies (ie TAV TEPE AFKEN INVESTMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONAL JSC;
and
CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTING ENGINEERING & PROCUREMENT S.A.L (OFFSHORE); and ARABTEC
CONSTRUCTION LLC (on own or together the "Contractor''). Therefore the 'band rates' will not be
considered to reflect 'Cost', as defined in the Contract. In order to substantiate the actual costs for Staff,
you are requested to provide clear auditable records
(detailed rate breakdown), as a minimum, for a representative sample of 3 'Staff personnel selected
from
each designation, for each Contractor company, listed above. The detailed rate breakdown would
typically
start from the salary amount paid to an employee plus a detailed list of 'on costs', allowances etc. to
derive
the full rate.
We also note that your monthly 'rates' for some 'Staff designations show significant increases during the
10 month delay period. Please provide the justification and substantiation, including as a minimum,
changes to employment contract, for the reasons that support these Staff rate increases.
We further note that certain Staff have been deployed onto the Site during the last 3 months of the
delay
period, whereas the Contractor's planned resources indicate a decrease in Staff during this period.
Please
provide the justification and substantiation, including as a minimum, the activities, designations and the
areas of the work Site that these additional Staff have been deployed to undertake.
Section 3.1.4- Staff from Third party Companies.
1. Quantity Surveying Company- Riyadh Abu Sbeih (RAS)
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014- March 2015, for the RAS.
2. Survey Companies-Such as City Surveys, Northern Engineering Surveys etc
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey

companies.
3. Security Company- PSS Security
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey
companies.
4. Doctors and Nurses - Lifeline
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
timesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014 - March 2015, for the above survey
companies.
5. 3.1.8 Various Consultants & Specialties & Technical Fees
In order to verify that the costs claimed by the Contractor properly comply with the definition of Cost
under the Contract, please provide soft copies of related agreements, purchase orders, task details,
t imesheets or reports, invoices for the months June 2014- March 2015, for the respective Consultant
companies performing the following tasks;
• Time Impact Analysis
• Material Testing Services
• Commercial Dept Support (Marwan Farroukh)
• Estidama Consultancy Services
• Site support services by Robert Bird Group
• Rebar Detailing Coordinator • Redesign of Concrete Beams
• QC painting Inspector
• Third party Inspection & Certification
Section 5 - PMV Costs
In order to avoid the time to perform a full audit of all your records for every month of the delay period,
we
requested in an email on 03 June 2015, (copy attached), copies of all daily "Time Cards" re lating to Plant
and Equipment for a sample Month, December 2014 only. We still await this information in a scanned
electronic (PDF) format.
Equipment & Plant Rentals
In order to progress our assessment of Plant etc. we require you to provide an entire utilization list of
equipment and plant including;
• The rentals used or provided to the Works by the Contractor and/or its Subcontractors
• The equipment and plant owned by the Contractor and/or its sub-contractors.
Currently your submission combines the rental equipment used both by the Contractor and the
Subcontractors and is unable to be separated in the form submitted. For clarity only, either, you provide
the information in a way that segregates the rentals of subcontractors, or, you integrate (if any) other
rentals of subcontractors within your current submission.
The values provided for the months (February-15 and March-15) include allocation of accruals. Please
advise when the actual invoices will be provided, to replace such accruals?
Provide a monthly record (June 14- March 15), of the actual working locations, and numbers of all
Crawler
and Tower Cranes . Detailed progress photographs with identification of each Crane would suffice.
We note that some items of equipment are billed as 1.5 months within a month. For example, Plant no.
04/03.07 /HC0046 in September 2014. Please clarify this apparent anomally.
We assume that this cost section covers all the diesel consumption used on the Works by the
Contractor,

and subcontractors for all the Plant and equipment both hired and owned. Please confirm or otherwise,
if
our assumption is correct.
Please provide soft copies of the invoices from the bulk Diesel supplier and the rate per litre, if not
stated
on the invoice.
We note that some items of Plant that are indicated in the list of rental equipment are not
correspondingly
listed in the Diesel consumption sheets. Please clarify this discrepancy.
Section 8 -Bond and Insurance Costs
Please explain how and why monies related to insurance and bonds etc have increased due to an
increased
duration of the Works.
With regard to the information provided, confirm the meaning for the: PB, APG, EIPG, AIPG ,
RG and CGL
Provide soft copies of Agreements or other substantiation relating to listed costs for;
• Bond and/or Guarantee/Commissioning Fees,
• Arrangement and Commitment, Agency Fees
• Insurances including; Professional Indemnity, Commercial Motor and Office Multi Cover Please clarify
and identify the ledger entries which do not reconcile with the actual date the costs were
incurred. For example, voucher nos. 136, 251 and 277.
Section 9- Other BIM Costs
We are currently analyzing the information received and will provide a complete response to this
section in
due course. However, we have identified certain items as highlighted on the attached spread sheet for
which an explanation is required.
Please clarify the calculation and meaning of the ledger entries for "Bentley BIM Software Share"
relating
to the months (June 14- March 15} being the delay period.
Appendix 02 - actual costs up to January 2015.
We record that the costs for the March 2015 have subsequently been received. We also note that there
are
many items of costs within this section that are included as 'accruals'. Please advise when the actual
invoices will be provided, to replace such accruals?
Item 18 Partners' Overhead
Whilst we may agree that the Contractor is entitled to claim additional 'Cost' relating to the prolonged
period, we do not accept that this is substantiated by the simple application of a 'formula'. Accordingly,
you
are requested to demonstrate, by provision of records etc, that the respective contracting companies
incurred actual costs in relation to the delaying event during the period of June 2014- March 2015.
Spreadsheet data in Appendices 2, 3 and 4 of your submission
Regarding the balance of all other details requested in our letter (3} above and email dated 24 May 2015
(copy attached}, we still await auditable records and the justification and substantiation of cost details
of
'Heads' requested for;
• "The Organization Chart for Staff, (period June 14- March 15}
• Indirect Labor,
• Depreciation cost (including the list of equipment owned by JV with their asset costs},

• Running Costs,
• Provisions of Utilities to SCs and,
• Permanent Power Supply.
• Contractor response to the query raised by Engineer in respect of rounding formulas on the
ManMonth
Calculations
• Details of "Software" costs"
Also, Section 8 of your electronic submission, referred to within this correspondence, includes only a
copy
of the file for section 7- "Other BIM Cost", Please include the correct f ile within your next submission.
Finally, we are very concerned that the dates committed to by the Contractor, within the 07 April 2015
programme (copy attached}, to provide all necessary supporting data and information to fully
substantiate
his claim for prolongation costs, in a manner sufficient to allow the Engineer to satisfactorily perform his
audit and determination, as per the Heads of Agreement, have fallen significantly behind the
commitment
made by the Contractor back in April 2015.
The Contractor's programme referred to above, consist of 34 separate 'Heads'. According to this
programme, by the 10 June 2015, the Contractor should have provided fully detailed submissions for 30
'Heads'. In fact, after three and a half months, the Engineer has received only a part of the first Head, as
described above. It is evident that for the substantiation and determination of the Contractor's Claim to
be completed by the
stated date of 06 October 2015, the primary focus must be upon significantly increasing the Contractor's
effort and resources that are being applied to th is task. This will require a significant increase in
resourcing
from the Contractor.
We trust the Contractor will now address these issues as well as providing the further detailed
particulars
and justification as requested and required by the Contract.
Yours faithfully
