Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0133
Delays due to Damage Caused by Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA) to MEP Services at North Lounge Request for Engineer’s Instruction/Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays attributable to damage caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA) to
our previously installed MEP services at North Lounge, which require rectification and accordingly will
require an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs together with a set of reports (at Annexe B to E hereto)
that serves to evidence damage having been caused to our previously installed MEP services at North
Lounge Level L3.0 and Level L3.1. Unfortunately despite various fire life safety services and devices
having been installed, inspected and handed over by us through the WIR process, this has subsequently
been damaged; and is directly attributable to the Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA).
Specifically, we draw your attention to the following:
•
Between 5 August 2019 to 15 August 2019, 3 nos. of FLS devices and cables (consisting of two
Smoke detectors and one Isolator module and fire alarm cable) at level 3.0 North Etihad lounge, were
found damaged (refer to Annex C ‘L3.0 NORTH ETIHAD DAMAGE REPORT’);
•
On 17 August 2019, during a routine site check it was found that the Electrical PAVA systems’
Loud Speaker at CSP L3.0 North lounge area, has been damaged by DEPA (refer to Annex B);
In support of the foregoing, we provide the following attachments:
1.
Annex A: This narrative providing a ‘Description of the Event’;
2.
Annex B: ‘Photos / Images Reference PAVA’;

3.
Annex C: ‘FAS Damaged Devices’;
4.
Annex D: Draft ‘Witness Statements’ [pages 1 of 2 and 2 of 2]; and
5.
Annex E: Draft ‘HSE Reports’ [pages 1 of 2 and 2 of 2]
We wish to put on record that the foregoing events are not of our doing or responsibility, and any
rectification / remedial works necessarily required to re-install and re-test the damaged elements of the
Fire Life Safety system at the Level L3.0 North Lounge at this stage will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged services
noted above, will require the issuance of a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid
down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
Furthermore, we request you to take necessary action to prevent any further occurrence of damages to
our previously handed-over MEP services installation by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
