
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant reiterated its request
under letter reference 2) for a quotation and programme for the design and construction of a Metro
passage connection between Qatar National Museum and the Museum Park.

Further to the Engineer's Assistant's request and the Contractor's submission under letter reference 3),
the Contractor hereby submits a more detailed and complete quotation for the revised Metro
connection between Qatar National Museum and the Museum Park.

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes and utility diversion
design costs as detailed in Appendix 1 attached herewith is QAR 4,841,113.78.

The estimated costs for the civil, structural and MEP designs have been calculated with reference to
Lead & MEP Designers' quotations which are enclosed herewith as Append ix 7) and 8).

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes and utility diversion
construction costs as detailed in Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 attached herewith is QAR 24,132,021.76.

The estimated MEP and architectural finishes construction costs have been calculated on the basis of
the information provided for Provisional Sums in Volume 2 Part 2 [Commercial Proposal] of the
Contract, as it is not possible at this time to provide a more accurate cost for these items.

The programme for the design and build of the new pedestrian connection can only be provided when
all necessary outstanding information will become available.

In summary therefore:
•

The design cost is estimated at OAR 4,841,113.78

•

The construction cost is estimated at OAR 24,132,021.76

•
A programme necessarily requires the preceding information to be complete and can be
provided as soon as the designs are adequately advanced.
The estimated structural, civil, MEP, architectural finishes and utility relocation design and construction
cost is provided for budgeting purposes only, and it does not include any other additional cost that may
arise as a consequence of a late Instruction, such as the cost of rework or abortive design, especially for
the Qatar National Museum station concourse level. These costs (if any) will be addressed under
separate cover.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
