
Subject: Prolongation claim of CCM

Specific Comments
The following comments are specific to the cost submissions made by CCM and must be read in
conjunction with the covering letter attached and its General Comments section:
1. General
− CCM have submitted actual and forecasted additional costs; the forecasted costs have
been projected up to 30 June 2019, which do not reflect actual costs incurred;
− CCM use the exchange rate relevant to the date of their tender submission (17 July 2014)
and apply it to the conversions of all EUR / USD to AED thereafter. However, the applied
exchange rates must be relevant to the time the costs are incurred;
− In certain instances, CCM have not substantiated their costs with sufficient evidence and
will therefore be required to provide more records to fully demonstrate actual loss within
their compensable periods;
− Upon receiving all necessary evidence, the JV will then assess if such costs are attributable
and reasonable.
2. Contractual Costs
2.1. Performance Bond
− CCM asserts that due to the fact they are not a local company their Italian bank (i.e. Banco
Popolare Di Milano) have had to provide a bond to the local HSBC in Abu Dhabi, who in
return have provided the necessary performance bond. A copy of HSBC’s Performance
Bond for the project has been provided;
− The arrangement with the Italian bank appears to be supported with Italian bank records,
correspondence and statements showing the relevant bank fees included in their costs
submissions. However, this evidence is in Italian, and must be re-issued in English before
it can be fully verified;
− CCM have not provided any evidence of the original fee agreements with both banks in
question;
− The figures provided within 1.1.1 [Summary of Italian Bank Charges & Annual Fees] do not
match the amounts within the summary sheets;
− The bank correspondence dated 15 November 2015 appears to confirm a conversion rate
of AED4.460 against the debited amount of EUR9,777.18 – such rate is considerably lower
that the one used in CCM assessment and would therefore need to be reassessed
accordingly;
− Further explanation and justification is required for the 26% Withholding Tax to Italian
Government.
2.2. Advance Payment Guarantee
− CCM have submitted additional fees associated with the extension of four Advance
Payment Guarantees;
− Records of four Advance Payment Guarantees from National Bank of Abu Dhabi have been
provided;
− CCM have not provided any evidence of the fee agreement with the banks regarding the
APGs;
− CCM have provided what appears to be Italian bank statements showing the relevant
bank fees included in their costs submissions; however, this evidence is in Italian, and
must be re-issued in English before it can be verified.

2.3. Insurance Fees
− Plant, Machinery and Equipment Insurance: CCM’s have provided debit notes to evidence
their additional premiums against the extended periods from May 2016 to May 2018;
CCM need to provide copies of all revised agreements showing the additional premiums,
and proof of payment from their account;
− Workman’s Compensation Insurance: CCM’s have provided debit notes to evidence their
additional premiums against the extended periods from May 2016 to May 2018; CCM
need to provide copies of all revised agreements showing the additional premiums, and
proof of payment from their account;
− Public Liability Insurance: CCM’s have provided debit notes to evidence their additional
premiums against the extended periods from May 2016 to May 2018; CCM need to
provide copies of all revised agreements showing the additional premiums, and proof of
payment from their account;
− Professional Indemnity Insurance: CCM’s have provided debit notes to evidence their
additional premiums against the extended periods from May 2016 to May 2018; CCM
need to provide copies of all revised agreements showing the additional premiums, and
proof of payment from their account;
− Marine Cargo Insurance: CCM have provided a debit note against this insurance, which
demonstrates a premium amount of AED 36,897, dated July 2015. In their summary
schedule CCM have pro-rated the premium over a 36-month period, and confirmed this is
the minimum deposit premium, actual cost will be deducted per each shipment. CCM
have not provided evidence of this policy in full and its agreed premium. Notwithstanding
this, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the JV would not consider this
insurance time related;
− Upon receiving all necessary documents, the JV will then assess if such costs are
attributable and reasonable.
2.4. Commercial License
− CCM’s additional costs include for the extension of their local commercial license. These
costs have been supported with various receipts;
− TCA JV understands that CCM has been set up locally solely to service this Project.
However, in absence of further evidence to support this, their commercial license fees are
being considered an overhead cost i.e. not time related.
2.5. Warranty
− CCM have submitted additional costs associated with the extension of material
warranties. As their manufactures have refused to extend the warranties, CCM are
seeking compensation for maintaining such warranties against plywood, plastic laminate,
krion, paint, powder coating etc;
− CCM have calculated their compensation using an arbitrary 1% against the ‘current’ value
of works (i.e. measured works plus variations);
− This approach is however not correct; the applied 1% is unsupported and the current
value of works includes for plant and labour, which is not relevant to this cost head;
− CCM need to consider each warranty individually, on a case by case basis i.e. original
warranty period, extended period, what it covers and assess the typical failure rates of the
material using published guides.

2.6. Finance Charges
− CCM finance charges are linked to 1) delayed certification of retention; 2) delayed
certification of original preliminaries due to ‘on-hold’; and 3) delayed certification of
prolongation costs;
− Delayed certification of retention: CCM have applied a simple interest rate of 16% against
5% retention and 1145 delays delay; The 16% interest rate is supported with an email
from a National Bank of Abu Dhabi representative and is based on a cash loan without
any security. CCM’s calculation does not take into consideration release of retention in
two parts i.e. part 1 at the Taking Over Certificate and part 2 after the Defects Liability
Period;
− Delayed certification of original preliminaries due to ‘on-hold’: CCM costs in this instance
are related to a portion of their works that were placed on hold by the Engineer. CCM
have provided evidence of the related instructions issued by the JV and the Engineer and
stated: CM requests compensation for the delay in assessing and certifying Prolongation
costs, which have been incurred since 12 May 2016. However, no evidence has been
provided to demonstrate that the aforementioned instructions have lead to critical
delays of the subcontract works. Further, the additional costs have been calculated after
the original contract period, using an arbitrary spread of preliminaries against an applied
simple interest charge of 16%, which is not correct. Notwithstanding any entitlement
argument, additional costs should be calculated at the time they are incurred;
− Delayed certification of prolongation costs: CCM have calculated these additional costs
using an estimated monthly prolongation charge of AED 700,000, and applied this to the
extended period between the original contract completion date and the projected
revised completion date. Notwithstanding any entitlement arguments, CCM have not
substantiated or evidenced the estimated prolongation charge, and the additional costs
should be calculated at the time they are incurred, but from the impacted period.
Prolongation costs are based upon actual costs incurred at the time of the compensable
delay period.
2.7. Overhead
− CCM are seeking the recovery of head office overheads against suspended works and
prolongation, however the basis of these costs is not entirely clear;
− It appears to be calculated by CCM as an unabsorbed overhead albeit no supporting
information has been provided. For a claim for unabsorbed overheads to succeed CCM
would need to demonstrate loss of opportunity and an actual under recovery of overhead.
No such evidence has been provided;
− In addition, an item for overheads on prolongation costs has been claimed, and it appears
that this may be a claim for additional overheads;
− Generally, CCM are required to satisfy the requirements set out in the General Comments
of this letter, and in particular paragraphs (d)(i) to (d)(iv).
3. Staff Costs
3.1. CCM are claiming significant amounts against direct labour under this cost head, which are not
time related costs. As a result, the JV have therefore categorised staff costs in accordance with
the following.

3.2. Core Staff - the JV has taken an example month (i.e. 201701) and assessed CCM’s cost
submission against time related 'Core' staff and their applicable cost heads – for the avoidance
of doubt the costs heads are only applicable if expressly stated in the employee’s employment
contract and supported with evidence to demonstrate actual costs incurred. Further it is noted
that although certain positions would be considered core staff, the applicable CCM staff are not
based in the UAE. In consideration of this, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, such
staff and their costs would be considered an overhead;
−

−

−

−

−

−

−

Basic Salary: CCM have provided a variety of evidence to support their staff salaries i.e.
CCM employment contracts or UAE labour contracts or invoices from Third Parties etc. In
certain instances, the documents have been provided in Italian and would therefore need
to be translated to English in order to verify. Further, to substantiate each individual core
staff working on the Project, CCM need to provide applicable pay slips, proof of payment
and timesheets etc.
Accommodation: CCM have provided copies of hotel invoices, which are only applicable to
2017. No evidence has been provided to support the staff with local tenancy agreements
in the UAE i.e. Monica Mombrini. CCM have provided copies of cheques addressed to
Mubarak Hamad Mohammed Marzouq, but it is unclear what they are for. Further
substantiation is required to support these costs;
Food: CCM have provided receipts for Nick Toft and Monica Mombrini. However, further
substantiation is required to link these receipts to the alleged personnel i.e. bank cards to
confirm bank details on the receipts. Upon receiving all necessary documents, the JV will
then assess if such costs are attributable and reasonable. As confirmed above, Nick Toft is
not based in UAE, so such costs would be treated as an overhead until evidence has been
provided to the contrary;
Ticket: No flight tickets and receipts have been provided for Nick Toft, David Richardson
and Patrizia Marinoni in this month, although it is noted that other months have evidence
of flight costs. The JV will only consider additional flight costs against the core staff based
in the UAE. Therefore, as Nick Toft, David Richardson and Patrizia Marinoni are not based
in UAE, such costs would be treated as an overhead until evidence has been provided to
the contrary. In general, it must be noted that any additional flight costs should be
apportioned across the employee’s yearly employment and in accordance with their
employment contract. Such costs can then be applied to the compensable delay periods;
Transportation: CCM have provided one lever arch folder of petrol and taxi receipts which
are mainly attributed (in writing) to Monica Mombrini expenses in 2016. However, the
authenticity of these receipts is somewhat unclear and further evidence would be
required to demonstrate them (i.e. who is paying and/or getting reimbursed for the taxis)
before the JV can apply their attributable and reasonable measures;
Gratuity: CCM have calculated gratuity based upon the employee’s salary, which is
inclusive of ‘other attendance’. This is not correct as gratuity is typically calculated from
the employee’s basic salary. Further, CCM are claiming gratuity against third party staff
(ex. Sumant Sharma), which is equally not correct as this would be paid by their direct
employer. Generally, CCM must provide record of employee's employment history etc to
establish what gratuity each employee is entitled too;
Handphone: Receipts have been provided for Du and Etisalat top-up phone cards, with
handwritten notes allocating various staff names to each. Upon inspection of the relevant
Employee Contracts, the JV note their contracts do not include for such expenses. i.e.

−

−

−

Sherwin Borras / Pitchanan Sriraj (Khun Mai). Provided the relevant Employee Contract’s
include for such expenses, CCM need to provide evidence to demonstrate how these
expenses have been paid and reimbursed if applicable. The JV will then assess each
expense on its reasonableness;
Visa: Invoices and receipts have been provided in support of these costs. In general, it
must be noted that any additional visa costs should be apportioned across the employee’s
yearly employment and in accordance with their employment contract. Such costs can
then be applied to the compensable delay periods;
Health Insurance: CCM have provided evidence (i.e. invoice and receipt) of an insurance
premium starting February 2017. Although a breakdown has been provided to show how
the premium is split between CCM staff members, CCM are required to provide evidence
of their original premium and confirmation that this is included in their employment
package. Further explanation is required from CCM to explain how they have calculated
the additional insurance costs against each of the applicable staff;
Cleaning: In certain months CCM have submitted costs and records for cleaning services of
‘Villa no.3’ (i.e. the maid and cleaning products). While it is not clear of the relevance to
Villa no.3, the JV would not consider such costs claimable under prolongation.

3.3. Location – such staff maybe considered time related if CCM can sufficiently demonstrate and
evidence that such staff were impacted by compensable delays and could not be relocated
elsewhere as part of their contractual obligation to mitigate any adverse impact. However, in
absence of further evidence to support this, these staff costs would be considered as task
related.
3.4. Task (Activity) / Production / Overhead – such designations are not considered to be time
related and therefore not applicable to prolongation costs.
4. Labour & Transportation
4.1. Labour Accommodation
− CCM has split these costs into the following heads: 1) Villa Rental; 2) Villa Elect & Water;
3) Villa Cleaning; 4) Technician Handphone; and 5) Technician Food;
− Although CCM have provided records against each cost heads, these costs are associated
with direct works which are generally considered a task related cost. CCM have not
demonstrated why they should be considered in prolongation costs.
4.2. Labour Transportation
− Similarly, although its appears CCM have provided lease agreements, invoices and
receipts, transportation for direct works is generally considered a task related cost. CCM
have not demonstrated / justified why this should be considered in prolongation costs;
− Notwithstanding the above, CCM appear to be seeking reimbursement of one off
purchase costs, which essentially do not form part prolongation costs.
5. Other Preliminaries
5.1. Site Office
− Generally on-site offices costs would be considered time related, excluding one off costs
that would have been incurred in any event;
− However, CCM appear to have submitted costs linked to what appears to be off-site
offices, identified as office no. 406, 501, 502 and 511. To support these costs CCM have

−

provided both various and partial lease agreements, invoices and receipts, which include
for one off costs and miscellaneous monthly charges such as phone services;
In the absence of an explanation to the contrary, such costs would be considered part of
the subcontractor’s overhead costs.

5.2. Office Equipment Consumables / Internet / Software costs / Refreshments/ Cleaning Products
etc.
− Generally, such on-site office costs would be considered time related (excluding one off
costs that would have been incurred in any event);
− However, CCM appear to have submitted costs linked their off-site offices and supported
them with partial records. CCM must separate out such costs and present the records
only relevant to the on-site office consumables, before the JV can assess the
reasonableness of these costs;
− In the absence of an explanation to the contrary, such costs would be considered part of
the subcontractor’s overhead costs.
5.3. Site Maintenance and Running Costs
− Generally, such costs are considered time related within reason, excluding one off costs
that would have been incurred in any event;
− CCM costs included for 1) health & Safety; 2) first aid, and 3) latrines and ablutions;
− The Health & Safety costs may comprise an element of time related expense, albeit a
number of the costs appear to be for purchases which may therefore have been incurred
in any event and without further information it is difficult to establish that all costs
claimed under head are truly time related costs. Further, in certain instances the monthly
costs confirmed within the CCM’s summary schedule do not correlate with records
provided i.e. CCM are claiming AED 60.00 in February 2017 for H&S within their summary
schedule, but their provided records (both pdf form and within the lever arch files) add up
to AED 407.00;
− The First Aid costs may be a time related expense although it is not clear from the records
provided what they relate to and whether or why they would be time related;
− The latrines and ablutions may also be time related with further justification and
substantiation from CCM. However, the supporting records show a number of back
charges from the JV which appear to be task related and link to direct labour. In the
absence of an explanation to the contrary, such costs would be considered as task related
costs;
− Generally, the JV will only assess an applicable time related costs and supporting records,
then determine if they are attributable and reasonable.
5.4. Project Manager’s Vehicle - Depreciation
− Generally, such costs are considered time related within reason, excluding one off costs
that would have been incurred in any event;
− CCM have submitted depreciation costs against the Project Manager’s Toyota Prado. To
calculate this CCM has presented both the purchase value in 2010 and a supporting email
from an Abu Dhabi Insurance company estimating its value in 2017. CCM then apply a
period of 14 months into it 2017 value plus the one-off costs incurred to transfer the
vehicle from Abu Dhabi;

−

−

The method adopted by CCM is not clear for several reasons; 1) the transportation of the
vehicle from Qatar should not be included in depreciation; 2) the vehicle would not have a
residual value at the end of the 14-month period, which is not correct; 3) depreciation of
time related assets must be supported with audited records/accounts;
Further, it is not clear if this vehicle is for CCM’s name Project Manager, MS Monica
Mombrini, as taxi costs have been attributed to her elsewhere in CCM’s 2016 cost
submission. Further clarification is required from CCM on this.

5.5. Project Manager’s Vehicle – Petrol / Maintenance / Insurance / Inspection tests / Vehicle Pass
− Generally, such costs are considered time related within reason, excluding one off costs
that would have been incurred in any event. However;
− CCM have not submitted all records evidencing their monthly costs;
− CCM have provided cash receipts from the ADNOC petrol station Khalifa City, New Airport
Road, but it cannot be determined if these receipts are linked directly with alleged vehicle
as no registration has been recorded on them;
− Generally, as there seems to be a crossover of taxi expenses in 2016 for MS Monica
Mombrini, further clarification is required from CCM on these costs heads.

5.6. Office Driver and Vehicle
− CCM have submitted costs and records against the following cost heads: rental, petrol,
parking, insurance, site vehicles pass etc;
− In the absence of an explanation to the contrary, such costs would be considered part of
the subcontractor’s overhead costs and/ or task related costs depending on the vehicle’s
usage and passengers.

1.
Executive Summary
Al Ghurair (herein referred to as AGC) has submitted numerous revisions of their total costs associated
with the Project until 31 October 2017. The latest value of AGC’s Claim for these historical costs is in the
amount of AED 264,091,538. Subsequently, after numerous meetings and discussions, we have
completed our assessment as AED 250,511,625. Furthermore, we have only been able to identify
payment substantiation linked to the project in the amount of AED 220,289,985.
Above assessment does not take the AED 35M contribution from AGC into account.
Out of the ten (10) categories assessed, four (4) has major variances between claim and assessment,
largest being in the Material and Staff Costs.
All details regarding the aforementioned are given in detail, below.
2.
Background
TCA JV started in November 2017 an open-book audit on AGC’s historical costs incurred up to and
including 31 October 2017 on the Project in order to agree on a reasonable amount for a financial
settlement. The first two submissions were inadequate in order for TCA JV to assess. The later
submissions improved after workshops with AGC in which the information required was explained, in
order to finalise the task.

Framework Document (herein referred to as FD) was produced between Senior Management and
Pinsent Masons and a draft was issued to AGC on 21 December 2017. The FD was subject to a number of
comments and revisions and was agreed but never eventually signed between the Parties.
In meetings between the Parties and in order to close out the total costs incurred; AGC agreed to
remove the Stores & Inventory materials from their Claim which reduced the amount by circa to AED
18m. Staff Costs have also been re-submitted with around AED 2m of costs removed from their Claim.
These items are the largest Variances between AGC’s original and latest submission.

3.

Commercial Position

AGC has been certified AED 226,995,112.92 up to September 2017. This includes AED 42.7 M on account
payment against historical costs, as addressed under FD. Since October 2017 AGC has not submitted any
Interim Payment Application for their progress of works, but issuing claims on "Interim Total Costs
Incurred”.
TCA JV has assessed the numerous submissions by AGC and they have been split into the following ten
(10) categories. A summary of TCA JV’s assessment and AGC’s submission values are summarised as
follows:
(i)
Hired Labour Supply - TCA JV’s assessment is in the amount of AED 15,855,899 based on receipt
of invoices and supplier timesheets specifying the project name. It was not possible to link the proof of
payment to the project but the supplier invoices and timesheets were deemed adequate to conclude
this item. The value of this item has been agreed with AGC.
(ii)
Outsourcing Design and Engineering – TCA JV’s assessment is in the amount of AED 7,189,688.
All invoices, LPO’s, cheques and wire transfers can be linked to the project and are deemed adequate.
The value of this item has been agreed with AGC.
(iii)
Materials – TCA JV’s audited assessment value for the claimed invoices is in the amount of AED
87,416,063. AGC’s revised submission value is AED 92,765,094. The discrepancy is based on glass
erroneously delivered in duplication and the code status of the MIR’s for the materials. TCA JV has not
allowed for any code 3 & 4 status materials within the value of our assessment. The value of this item
has not been agreed with AGC.
(iv)
Site & Other Expenses – TCA JV’s audited assessment value is AED 15,880,113. All items
excluding circa AED 80k of items have been agreed with AGC. We are awaiting the submission of
invoices to be supplied for the items that are yet to be agreed. The value of this item has not been
agreed with AGC.
(v)
Project Management Cost – TCA JV’s assessment is in the amount of AED 20,634,617.53 against
AGC’s Claim value amounting to AED 21,781,369. The variance is based on JV’s assessment of the Staff
incentives and fringe benefits considered to be less than AGC’s claim. Unknown Staff members have also
been removed. The value of this item has not been agreed with AGC.
(vi)
Design and Engineering Cost – TCA JV’s assessment is in the amount of AED 23,453,744.68
against AGC’s Claim value amounting to AED 25,472,283. The discrepancy is based on our assessment of
the Staff incentives and fringe benefits considered to be less than AGC’s claim. We have also removed

members of staff we believe never worked on the project. The value of this item has not been agreed
with AGC.
(vii)
Finance Cost – TCA JV’s assessment value is based on AGC’s Claim and is in the amount of AED
9,109,911. The value of this item has been agreed with AGC.
(viii)
Manufacturing Cost – In order to fully assess AGC’s Claim for Manufacturing Costs, a comparison
was completed between market rates we had back-charged to AGC on the project against the rates they
had provided for the cost of the Materials they had fabricated for the project. The rates applied by AGC
are considerably less than the market rates we applied against their account. When considering what it
would have been, to purchase the material from elsewhere in the market, the manufacturing cost from
AGC seems reasonable. The value of this item is provisionally agreed in the amount of AED 19,085,245
but I would recommend the Procurement Department to obtain additional rates for comparative
purposes.
(ix)
Site Installation Labour – Due to the large volume of timesheets, TCA JV’s assessment value of
AED 20,438,162 is based on a fair rate applied to each of the four (4) categories of AGC’s labour force.
TCA JV also selected six (6) days from every month and applied the abated percentage to the total Claim.
The agreed percentage of 94% has been applied against AGC’s Claim. The value of this item has been
agreed with AGC.
(x)
AGC Production Labour – Due to the large volume of timesheets, TCA JV’s assessment value of
AED 17,268,278 is based on selecting twenty-five (25) days of timesheets and applying the abated
percentage to AGC’s claim. The agreed percentage is 95% of AGC’s claim value. The delta is based on
hours claimed by AGC against the actual hours on the timesheets. The value of this item has been
agreed with AGC.

4.

Conclusion & Recommendation

Conclusion
It is recommended that TCA JV issue the latest assessment which details the Variances between the
accounts in order for these items to be agreed between the Parties. The value of the Materials Claim
needs to be agreed between AGC and Senior Management as there is a large value of Code 3&4
Statuses, Duplicated glass deliveries and poor Quality glass within AGC’s Claim. AGC are disputing that
this should be removed from their Claim. AGCA staff members’ allocation to the project has also been
questionable, with various TCAJV staff members highlighting an ‘overstated’ involvement of certain
AGCA staff claimed throughout the duration of scheme. In addition to the above, certain fringe benefits
(particularly ‘incentive payments’) are in dispute until a more representative sample can be provided.
Recommendation

Based on the information provided above, the recommendation would be to address our determination
for historical costs to AGC in the amount of AED 215,511,625 (inclusive of AED 35M – AGC’s contribution
to historical costs).
Subject: Obstruction to Other Contractor at Downtown Fashion Arcade

Dear Sir,
In response your letter referenced (1), we would like to highlight that the works had been previously
completed, but due to various design changes and CI’s, we had to revisit these areas to carry out the
additional works which have been instructed by the Engineer. Please see below the summary and status
of works that have impacted the mentioned areas:-

Area impacted Description
Status Comments
All Arcades
Increase in fire pipe size Works Completed.
Refer
to
letter
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/012648
All Arcades
Additional lighting and lighting control circuits Under review with ARUP, CMA and TCA
Engineering. Refer to email (attached)
All Arcades
Re-cabling of the isolators power supply.
Awaiting CI and signed sketch to be
issued. (CMA) Refer to email (attached)
Luxury Fashion & Watches and Jewellery
Additional Power supplies for FIDS
signed sketch to be issued.
Refer to email (attached)

Awaiting CI and

All Arcades
Additional RPS supplies Works ongoing, signed sketch received Mid-June 2018 Refer
to email (attached)

As you can see from the above status, there are still pending engineering issues which have to be
finalized before the site construction team can proceed. We kindly inform you that, we will not be held
liable for any delays / disruptions to the release of the mentioned areas to the Employer and/or other
contractors due to the late instruction and design changes within the arcades.
Yours faithfully,
