Subject: Clause 27.3- Dispute Resolution- Mutual Agreement to Extension of Period
Dear Sir,
On 7th November 2018 J&H issued a formal Dispute Notice (Ref: JHE-ADIA-TCAJV-PH-1989) in
accordance
with Clause 27.3 - Dispute Resolution of the Conditions of Subcontract . . That action was taken because
many of J&H's variation requests, claims and requests for extensions of time had been outstanding for a
period in excess of two years and those that had been dealt with, TCAJV had failed to issue a
determination
as required by Clause 11.4 - Determinations, of the Conditions of Subcontract. J&H having failed in its
requests of TCAJV to have those matters dealt with in accordance with the Cond itions of Subcontract or
at all,
reluctantly formed the view that there was no alternative but to elevate the matters to that of a formal
dispute.
On lOth December 2018, TCAJV issued its own Dispute Notice in accordance with Clause 27.3 of the
Conditions of Subcontract (Ref: MTB/TCA/JANGHO/L,001619), however, that Dispute Notice provided
no
information as to the subject matter or details of the alleged dispute.
Clause 27.3.1 of the Conditions of Subcontract provides that following the issue of a Dispute Notice, the
parties are required to hold a meeting in an effort to resolve the dispute. In compliance with Clause
27.3.1, a
meeting was held between the representatives of TCAJV and J&H on 18th December 2018. At that
meeting
cognizance was taken of the sixty (60) days period for resolving the dispute and the subsequent twenty
(20)
days for referring the dispute to arbitration, as provided by Clause 27 .3.2 of the Conditions of
Subcontract.

The representatives of TCAJV and J&H continued, although with limited progress, to hold periodic
discussions
on J&H's various claims and requests, after the sixty (60) days period (Clause 27.3.2). TCAJV wrote to
J&H on
16th January 2019 (Ref: MTB/TCA/JANGHO/L,001650) confirming agreement between TCAJV and J&H
that
the sixty {60) days period for resolution of the dispute be extended; TCAJV suggested that a schedule of
submissions, responses and meetings be agreed with a target date of 14th March by which date the
process must be concluded.
Following discussion between TCAJV and J&H, TCAJV wrote to J&H on 22"d January 2019 (Ref:
MTB/TCA/JANGHO/LftJ01654) confirming agreement to a short term programme of meetings up to 31st
January 2019, but stated that as discussions would not be complete by 30th January, suggested the
period
for dispute resolution continue subject to either party serving a notice of seven (7) days ending the
period for
amicable settlement.
J&H having considered the proposal of TCAJV, while J&H agreed to mutually extend the period for
dispute
resolution, it formed the view that the proposal did not provide sufficient clarity as to what had been
agreed
or to the provisions of Clause 27.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract. J&H therefore responded on 23'd
January
2019 (Ref: JHE-ADIA-TCAJV-PH-2043) proposing that the period of amicable settlement be ended simply
by
one party notifying the other that within seven (7) days the period of amicable settlement will end, thus
commencing the twenty (20) day period when either party can refer the dispute to arbitration.
It is clear from the above that notwithstanding the issue of its Dispute Notice on 7th November 2018,
J&H has,
in order to achieve a fair and just outcome in respect of its several requests and claims, allowed TCAJV
ample
additional time to fulfil its contractual obligations, but it would appear that TCAJV has been
disingenuous
both with regard to its actions and stated objectives.
Since shortly after the issue of J&H's Dispute Notice on 7th Novenib.er 2018 and throughout much of
the
intervening period, members of J&H's senior project team have attended numerous meetings with
TCAJV's
project/commercial team in order to provide further explanation or information concerning J&H's
requests
and claims. Notwithstanding that many of the requests and claims were made in excess of two years ago
TCAJV's requests for explanation and information indicated that 'J&H's requests ·and claims had not
been
properly reviewed or considered from the time they were originally submitted. But that aside J&H's
greater
concern has been the lack of progress because of repeated requests for detailed information and then
further requests for even more detail, on the same subject matter. Whatever information is requested
by
TCAJV, when it is submitted by J&H, it is then subject to further requests.

It is clear that TCAJV's intention is to frustrate the process so that either J&H is forced to accept
something
less than that to which it is entitled or TCAJV determines that the request or claim is rejected because
J&H
has failed to provide sufficient supporting information. In either case J&H loses while TCAJV benefits;
TCAJV
having already settled its claims with the Client, which means it is to TCAJV's benefit to reduce whatever
sum
it has ultimately to pay to J&H.
Where there has been progress, it is limited in the extreme and relates only to small value variations,
which
have no impact on the sums in dispute. There has been no progress on the bigger value. variations or
claims
and little productive discussion.
TCAJV, in its letter of 16th January 2019 (Ref: MTB/TCA/JANGHO/LJ)01650L in referring to continuing
the
period of what it described as 'constructive discussions' stated that 14th March 2019, was the date by
which the process 1 must be concluded ... '.
More recently, J&H wrote to TCAJV on 20th February 2019 (Ref: JHE-ADIA-TCAJV-PH-2051) referring to
the
series of workshop meetings over the previous 4.5 months in relation to J&H's request for a revised
determination and final Subcontract price and J&H's meeting with TCAJV on 17th February 2019. J&H
made
reference at that meeting to TCAJV's initial assessment dated 4th October2018 of AED 633,000,000 and
J&H's
submitted figure of AED 1,110,332,785, and requested TCAJV look again at its figure and review and
improve
on its final settlement proposal. It was requested by J&H that the revised determination and Final
Subcontract Price should to be ready to issue to J&H by the end of February 2019.
TCAJV, by its letter (Ref: MTB/TCA/JANGHO/L/)01684) dated 28 February 2019, but issued by TCAJV and
received by J&H on 6th March 2019, included a number of schedules, which TCAJV referred to as /Scott
Schedules'. As such they merely record TCAJV's interpretation of the current status of the discussions
and
respective position on J&H's various claims and requests i.e. the purpose of a Scott Schedule; they
amount to
neither a determination as required by Clause 11.4 of the Subcontract Conditions nor a Final Contract
Price.
Both the dates of 28th February 2019 and 14th March 2019, as proposed byTCAJV for the issue by TCAJV
of a
determination and Final Contract Price, have passed without either being published, yet TCAJV in its
letter of
28th February (Ref: MTB/TCA/JANGHO/L/)01684), in referring to the Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU-8)
considered it appropriate to remind J&H of its commitment, while maintaining that TCAJV was
complying
with its own, a statement that is unsupported by the facts ..
In a Meeting held on 18 December 2018 regarding the dispute resolution, while the senior
representatives of

J&H's project team are authorised to both discuss and agree matters concerning J&H's requests and
claims,
TCAJV's representatives appear to have little or no decision-making authority, which at best is an
indication
of TCAJV's approach to an amicable settlement of the dispute.
TCAJV comprises three well known and experienced internatio'nal contractors who both individually as
well
as jointly are perfectly capable of dealing with J&H's several outstanding requ~sts and claims, even more
so
now after J&H has provided a wealth of additional information in support of its position. Whether the
senior
management of TCAJV are unwilling or unable to settle this dispute by making a realistic proposal is
unclear,
but while J&H has followed TCAJV's suggestion of agreeing further.time for amicable settlement
discussions,
without a fair determination of J&H's requests and claims or settlement offer that is realistic and reflects
the
substantial loss that J&H has suffered through no fault of its owri, it is. appropriate that the extended
period
for amicable settlement be brought to an end.
Therefore having regard to the above and in accordance with J&H letter of 23rd January 2019 (Ref:
JHE-ADIA-TCAJV-PH-2043) this letter is to be considered as notifying TCAJV that the period for amicable
settlement is at end and that on the expiry of seven (7) days from today the twenty (20) days period for
referring the dispute to arbitration as provided in Clause 27.3.2 will commence.
Yours faithfully
