
Subject Roofing Works
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence {1) regarding the Roof Site Hose Testing Requirements.
Upon review of the Remaining Quantities Table provided in your correspondence (1) it is evident that
there has been no major progress from your Subcontractors. We record that not a single Pier,
Gatehouse, Wrapper of CP Roof including any of the skylights and soffits has been completed as of the
date of this letter. The Contractor missed the Amendment 7 milestone number B3 which was to
complete the lnfill skylights within the central processor by 31 March 2018 and as summarized in our
correspondence (5).
Furthermore, we disagree with the Contractor's contention that the Engineer has misinterpreted the
specifications regarding the surveys for the gutters. We remind the Contractor that the Engineer's
inspections shall not be restricted to the agreed inspection points. These inspections shall monitor the
on-going works to identify possible areas of noncompliance before the mandatory inspection points are
reached. As you are aware, a non-conformance exists when material and equipment, documentation or
construction does not comply with the requirements of the Contract. The Contractor shall check the
position of all elements of the building structure and other work that interfaces with the Works to verify
compliance with the Contract Documents. ·
It is therefore the Contractor's obligation to construct the Works in accordance with the Contract and
the Contractor is requested to provide his recovery plan to overcome shortfalls in progress within one
week upon receipt of this letter.
Subject:Commercial Issues on Total Costs Incurred
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the subject matter and we hereby instruct you to address the following
commercial issues;
1.
AGC Site Presence of Commercial Staff – Please be advised that we need your commercial
representatives to be relocated to the site for the remainder of your works and your Commercial
Manager to attend weekly meetings.
2.
AGC to reconcile costs – You are required to reconcile the historical costs against packages thus
Pre-October 2017 and other submissions thereafter.
3.
Application format – We shall issue in due course the Application Format for material
submissions (split into 20%/60%/20%) that includes 5% retention, 5% WIR & 5% BIM contribution on the
summary page.
4.
Proforma Invoice – You must place T-number references on all proforma invoices for ease of
reference.
5.
Material requisitions – All requesters to place T-numbers on the requisition notes.

Please note that all of the above issues need to be addressed within seven (7) days of receipt of this
letter.
We look forward to your confirmation on the above and your continued support in this regard.
Yours faithfully,
