
Dear Sir,

We refer to your letter reference M006-GDB-PMT-LTR-00034, dated 14 December 2014.

We are writing to express our concern that the Contractor Representative's reply to the Engineer's letter
reference M006-QRC-PMT-LTR-00059 contains responses that ,9_o not accuratelz: represent the acts
and fail to provide proposals that address the areas for improvement highlighted in the Engineer's
letter.
Excavation lateral Support (ELS)
The Engineer's Assistant (EA) rejects the Contractor's assertion that the Contractor was instructed to
modify the ELS design for Al Sharq, Doha Souq, Al Adhawaa , Al Sadd and Villaggio Stations. On the
contrary, it was ALYSJ's specific request to be allowed the opportunity to further optimize the ELS design
at these locations.
The Engineer's Assistant reminds the Contractor that it is the Contractor's responsibility to ensure that
the ELS design shall be robust and capable of mitigating any perceivable risks. The Contractor has yet to
submit any risk analysis despite continuous requests by the EA for the Contractor to do so.

The Contractor stated that the DVE certification for ELS for all Stations (except Al Waab Station and the
stabling area at Airport City North) had been obtained. The EA is unaware of this progress as the
Contractor has not submitted the said DVE certificates for EA review. The Contractor is requested to
provide the EA with the DVE certificates immediately .
Provisional Sum
Mr.Anthoullis Manoras has been deployed and improvement has been observed. Senior Management
Direction
The Contractor did not provide a direct commitment to the Engineer in his letter dated 14 December

2014. The following EA's letters evidence the fact that the Contractor has not focused on progress and
program delivery, despite the emphasis in the CCG Meeting in October 2014.
•
Hard Barricading on excavation walking routes at ACN - M006-LBE-HMS-LTR-00072 - dated 9
December 2014.
•

Shotcreting at Al Adhawaa - M006-LBE-CON-LTR-00062 - dated 30 December 2014.

•
Insufficient Plant and Equipment at Sports City Station - M006-LBE-CON-LTR-00060 - dated 31
December 2014.

•
Insufficient Plant and Equipment at Al Waab City Station - M006-LBE-CON-LTR-00059 dated 31
December 2014.
Design
Improvement to the Lead Designer performance has been observed. However, the Contractor has not
provided any plan in which he will address the Contractor's own design resources deficiency as
requested in our previous letter. Please submit as requested.
Commercial
The Contractor did not address the following issues raised in the Engineer's letter in a pragmatic
manner:
•
Late award of Sub-contractors and suppliers leading to program delays due to lack of equipment
and materials.
•

Finalise concept and award of concrete supply.

•

Positive focus and progress on the provisional sum items.

Lack of equipment and materials continue to be an issue as evidenced in the EA letters listed above
under the "Senior Management Direction" section. The EA also noticed that the segment production
was halted as a result of running out of PP fibers supply. The letter reference M006-LBE-CON-LTR-00061
dated 30 December 2014 was issued to register the EA's concern.
The Contractor has yet to provide the final concept and award of concrete supply, despite the Engineer
raising his concerns on 29 October 2014 during the CCG meeting. This is unacceptable .
With regard to your point on the provisional sums, the EA has already outlined his position in letter
reference M006-LBE-COM-LTR-00369 and at a meeting with Qatar Rail attended by Mr. Roy Joseph Ford,
Mr.Jason Beech,Mr.Bryan Tan and the Contractor's Commercial Manager Mr. Keith Gourlay.
Construction
The Contractor did not address the issues raisec . This EA is concerned by the Contractor 's attitude and
apparent lack of care in his response to this item...A. comprehensive response i s required.
Stakeholder

The stakeholder department as a whole has improved, however permit applications and follow-up need
further improvement.

The Contractor shall propose a time to present his proposed Media Plan to the EA and Employer.
Yours faithfully,
