
Bruce Neave
Project Director
AGN/SKO/KMY/MCE/spo
ANNEX A

Background
On 9 October 2019 the Contractor issued its ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 2 May
2019 and 1 August 2019 (‘TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8’)’ to the Engineer under the cover of letter reference
MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/014884.
The Engineer responded via letter reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11092 on 27 October 2019,
requesting the Contractor to provide a presentation in relation to the ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for
Events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ to elaborate on the following issues;
Details of the TIA Methodology;
Basis of entitlement to heads of claim; and
Compliance with the Contract (concurrency analysis, mitigations measures and claim submission
timeframes etc.).
For ease of reference, the Contractor’s response to letter reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11092 has
maintained the same structure and nomenclature as the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s
‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’
A.
Contractual Compliance:

Within the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2
May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ submission, the following statement is made by the Engineer:
“The Contractor and in this submittal (1) and similarly with TIA No 1, has not complied with the
requirements of the Contract and in particular with Clauses 27.1.5 and 27.2 of the Conditions of
Contract. The Contractor has failed to submit both fully detailed claims for the submitted notices and a
separate Time Impact Analysis (TIA) within the contractually stipulated timeframe.”
The Contractor responds as follows:
The Contractor maintains its position presented within Slide 67 of its presentation provided on
31 July 2019, and the detailed response to the Engineer’s response to ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for
events between 4 September 2018 and 1 May 2019’, issued by the Contractor via letter reference
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014864 dated 6 October 2019, that any failure to comply with Clauses 27.1.5 and
27.2 should not prevent the Engineer from assessing any TIA submissions.
In the Engineer’s response to ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 4 September
2018 and 1 May 2019’, issued by the Contractor, the Contractor makes reference to Clause 27.1.9 of the
Conditions of Contract which states:
“If the Contractor fails to comply with this or another such provision in relation to any claim any
extension of the Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and/or adjustment to the
Contract Price shall take account of the extent (if any) to which the failure has prevented or prejudiced
proper investigation of the claim, unless the claim is excluded under clause 27. 1.2.”
As such, the Contractor maintains that irrespective of any perceived failure by the Contractor to comply
with Clauses 27.1.5 and 27.2, the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May
2019 and 1 August 2019’ submission provides sufficient information for the Engineer to provide a
detailed response and determination pursuant to Clause 27.1.6 of the Conditions of Contract.
Within the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 4
September 2018 and 1 May 2019’ submission, the following statement is made by the Engineer:
“Furthermore, part of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract is to submit a concurrency
analysis as a pre-requisite for any potential entitlement for time to be compensable. The Contractor's
submission does not provide such an analysis nor does it substantiate how it complied with the
provisions of the Contract in this regard. The Contractor merely states that there are no concurrent
delays.”
The Contractor maintains its position in relation to concurrent delay and, as such, responds as follows:
The Contract defines at page 3 under 1.1 (Definitions) concurrent delay as:
“Concurrent Delay means the occurrence of two or more delay events at the same time, one an event
within clause 16.5.1(a) to (c), and the other not falling within those sub-paragraphs, the effect of which
are felt at the same time”
Furthermore, the Contractor notes that Clause 1.3.7 of the ‘Program Project Controls Requirements’
states:
"As part of the TIA submission, the Contractor must demonstrate that there are no concurrent delays
caused by the Contractor, or by any other cause which would render the extension of time noncompensable (e.g. force majeure impacts). This analysis is a condition precedent to compensation for
delays included in the TIA, subject to other terms and conditions of the Agreement."
The Contractor maintains that Clause 1.3.7 of the ‘Program Project Controls Requirements’ does not
define the methodology of the concurrency analysis. As such, based upon the Contractor’s
interpretation of the concurrency definition under the Contract and the detail provided within Section
10.0 of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August
2019’ submission, the Contractor has provided a concurrency analysis to ‘demonstrate that there are no
concurrent delays caused by the Contractor.”

To date the Engineer has not provided any alternate concurrent delay analysis methodology or
interpretation of the concurrency definition under the Contract for the Contractor’s consideration.
Within the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2
May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ submission, the following statements are made by the Engineer:
“It is evident that the Contractor has changed the Programme's logic with no demonstration of
the mitigation measures being taken, therefore the updated Programme is not in compliance with
Conditions of Contract nor with the Project Control Requirements Clause 1.3.4 "The progress
Programme shall conform to all requirements of the Baseline Programme". Clause 1.3.4 further states
that " The Employer shall accept this list (Programme logic changes) as part of its overall Progress
Programme submittal review and acceptance process ".
The Engineer notes that on numerous occasions it has rejected the Contractor's updated Programmes
due to non-compliance. The Engineer is therefore prevented from effectively assessing the submitted
claims by utilizing these rejected updated Programmes.
In light of the above, the Engineer advises that the Contractor has failed to comply with the Contract in
both the timing of the submission of fully detailed claims for the alleged delaying events and the
methodology and timing of submission of the TIA.”
The Contractor responds to the above as follows:
The Contractor does not dispute the fact that the Engineer has raised certain objections to the
Contractor’s monthly updates. Whilst discussions continue between the representatives of the
Contractor and Engineer to resolve these issues, the Contractor makes reference to Clause 1.3.7 of the
Program Project Controls Requirements which states:
“the Contractor shall submit as part of his application a Programme showing how the works have been
impacted by delay events. The programme will be used to demonstrate entitlement and shall be the
progressed programme in place at the time of the occurrence of the delay event.”
Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements does not stipulate that ‘the progressed
programme in place at the time of the occurrence of the delay event’ should be approved or otherwise.
To date no alternate progress updates for those adopted as part of the ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for
events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ have been prepared or agreed by the Parties.
As such, those monthly update programmes adopted for the ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events
between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ remain ‘the progressed programme in place at the time of the
occurrence of the delay event’ and their inclusion within the TIA remains valid.
B.
Methodology of the TIA:
Within the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2
May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ submission, the following statements are made by the Engineer:
“In various communications to the Contractor with respect to their periodic Programme
updates, the Engineer has noted that the modifications made by the Contractor to their periodic
Programme updates are unsubstantiated and unjustified and therefore render these Programme
updates to be unreliable. Further, the Contractor is referred to the outstanding NCR 01061 (5) that is
related to the non-compliant progress Programme and Monthly Report submittals, which remains open.
The monthly updates have been rejected and the Contractor's TIA submission is based on a formally
rejected Programme update.”
”By using a different periodic update as the basis for each TIA window, the analysis is further
and irrecoverably compromised. Notwithstanding the fact that the methodology used by the Contractor
in their previous claim's submissions is outside of recognised industry protocols, the Contractor's use of
different Programmes as the basis for each new Time Impacted Window further reduces the robustness
of the delay analysis and the integrity of any claimed results derived from it.”
The Contractor responds to the above as follows:

Again, the Contractor does not dispute the fact that the Engineer has raised concerns over Contractor’s
monthly updates, with specific reference to NCR No. 01061, the Contractor notes this NCR remains
open.
However, the Contractor again makes reference to Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls
Requirements which states:
“the Contractor shall submit as part of his application a Programme showing how the works have been
impacted by delay events. The programme will be used to demonstrate entitlement and shall be the
progressed programme in place at the time of the occurrence of the delay event.”
As previously stated, Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements does not stipulate that
‘the progressed programme in place at the time of the occurrence of the delay event’ should be
approved or otherwise. To date no alternate progress updates for those adopted as part of the
‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ have been prepared or
agreed by the Parties. As such, those monthly update programmes adopted for the ‘Consolidated Delay
Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ remain ‘the progressed programme in place
at the time of the occurrence of the delay event’ and their inclusion within the TIA remains valid.
Furthermore, Clause 1.3.7 of the Program Project Controls Requirements stipulates that ‘the progressed
programme in place at the time of the occurrence of the delay event’. This Contractual requirement
dictates the fact that the current monthly update programme must be used for each of the delay
analysis periods as each of these programmes presents the Contractor’s intentions at the time each
delay event occurred.
In the opinion of the Contractor, the ‘use of different Programmes as the basis for each new Time
Impacted Window’ produces a far more robust delay analysis than the alternative, which would be to
maintain the approved Revision 11.2 programme and its associated logic for the entirety of the delay
analysis on a Project which continues to be fluid in its execution.
Within the Engineer’s assessment of the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2
May 2019 and 1 August 2019’ submission, the following statements are made by the Engineer:
“The Engineer considers the inclusion of these Variations with signed Time and Cost Records to
be incorrect and compromises further the integrity of the delay analysis and the results derived from it.
The same applies to the inclusion of the alleged Subsidence delay event within the analysis.”
The Contractor responds to the above as follows:
Whilst the Contractor has agreed that there is no time impact, this does not mean that such non-critical
events will not have an impact on overall productivity and give rise to elements of disruption for which
the Contractor may seek compensation.
Additionally, as required as part of the Change Management Process, implemented following the signing
of the Supplemental Agreement and Amendment No. 8 on 4 September 2018, the Contractor was
required to provide a stand-alone TIA for any proposed additionally instructed works.
Whilst these provided stand-alone TIA’s identify whether the additionally instructed works will, in
isolation, impact upon the Completion Milestones, the impact of these additionally instructed works
may contribute to a delay to the Completion Milestones when consolidated with other notified delaying
events.
C
Basis of Entitlement:
Within the Contractor’s ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August
2019’ submission, the Contractor included the impact of a further 42 No. Delay Notices and the impact
of 1 No. signed Variation.
The Engineer has provided a brief response to each of the Contractual Basis for Entitlement which are
addressed by the Contractor within the following Scott Schedule in the order presented within the
Engineer’s letter reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11092.

Engineer’s Comments as per Letter Reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11092 Our Response
Notice No. 107 - Engineers Responses to RFI Nos. 16346, 16794, 17087, 17158, 17056, 17157, and 17185
- Changes to Doors Hardware, Acoustic/ Fire Ratings, SACS, etc.: Request for Engineer's Instruction /
Variation Order
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor regarding the merit of the submitted E-Notice. The
Contractor is referred to Clause 1.2 of Section 013113 of the Specifications wherein it is stated that the
Contractor shall coordinate all works with other trades. The Contractor's raised RFIs demonstrates a lack
of the Contractor's coordination amongst the trades. In particular:
For the reasons expressly set
out in our Notice No. 107 and asserted in the manner set out below, the changes to the doors cited in
Notice No. 107 are exactly that, changes and cannot possibly be construed as being at our risk or part of
our responsibility to coordinate trades. The design is the responsibility of the Employer / Employer’s
Design Consultant – it was because of discrepancies and ambiguities in the design of the doors that
resulted in many workshops being held early 2019 to resolve them; resulting in many RFIs being raised
such as those noted in our Notice.
RFI/0401/16794: As per Bulletin No.254 that was issued under EI714 dated 04 December 2017, the
Name/Function of Room L01-0184 changed from TBD to APM Switchgear Room and according to the
Bulletin it should have a Gas Suppression System. The response to the RFI provided the required
technical clarification. Additionally, the Contractor is referred to EI681D which was issued on 23 August
2017 and which fully covers the costs, therefore the Contractor has no entitlement to additional monies.
Furthermore, we note that this issue was known to the Contractor prior to the Settlement Agreement
and Amendment No 8 (SAA8) Effective Date and Clauses 1.7.2, 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8 apply.
RFI NO.
16794: Door No. L01-0184.01 was reviewed via Workshop and finalized by Engineer’s Instruction 681D.
Accordingly, the door was implemented, fabricated and installed on site. Along with the EI 681D, Door
Schedule was provided showing the specific details of the door, confirmed during the Door and
Hardware workshop by KPF, ADAC and JV. To avoid raising thousands of RFI’s with the inaccurate and
ambiguous details from the IFC Door Schedule rev 31 by Bulletin 245, workshops were implemented
instead.
RFI No. 16974 has been raised to clarify once again the discrepancy found from the GA floor plan on
Bulletin 254. Door No. L01-0184.01 does not exist from the door schedule provided by Bulletin 254,
which means no changes to the door. However, in changing the room functionality for door no. L010184 from TBD to APM Switchgear Room which incorporates Gas Suppression; the designer should have
provided technical details with a door schedule, including the appropriate Door Hardware set.
The existing door that was implemented from EI no. 681D was already installed on site with a final WIR #
67385. This Door will not be able to be utilized and be functional due to the changes made in Bulletin
254, thus a new door is required with all the details provided in a door schedule.
We made it clear in Notice No. 107, that although RFI/0401/16346 was submitted on 30 July 2018, i.e.
prior to the 'Effective Date' included in SAA8 (4 September 2018), you failed to reply until 27 September
2018. This cannot possibly be construed as forming part of or 'Included Circumstances' (per Clause 1.7.4
of SAA8) and will be included within any forthcoming Time Impact Analysis, albeit in recognition of the
Effective Date included in SAA8, any delays will be analysed from 4 September 2018 onwards.
Moreover, we also made it clear that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1 to Notice No. 107
introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works, including but not limited to changes to
Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc (per Annex A thereto). Therefore in
view of this fact we maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from such change.
RFI/0401/17087: EI681C was issued to the Contractor on 15 August 2017 regarding the 90 minutes fire
rating. Furthermore, the fire rating has been updated with Bulletin 245 to align with the fire

compartmentation drawing. The Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost given that
it was a known event prior to SAA8 Effective Date.
RFI No. 17087: Door No. L01-1749.01 was
reviewed via Workshop and finalized by Engineer’s Instruction 681D. Accordingly, the door was
implemented, fabricated and installed on site. Along with the EI 681D, a Door Schedule was provided
showing the specific details of the door, which was confirmed during the Door and Hardware workshop
by KPF, ADAC and JV. To avoid of raising thousands of RFI’s with inaccurate and ambiguous details of
the IFC Door Schedule rev 31 by Bulletin 245, workshops were implemented instead.
RFI No. 17087 has been raised to clarify once again the discrepancy found from the issued EI 681C. Door
No. L01-1749.01 was specified with HW set 220 which does not work for a fire rated door. EI 681C
provided a door schedule with details that are not functional to the required 90 minutes fire rating door.
Moreover, we also made it clear in Notice No. 107 that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1
thereto introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works, including but not limited to
changes to Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc. These were identified in
Annex A thereto. Because of this, this cannot possibly be construed as a matter that was known of prior
to SAA8. Therefore, we maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or cost resulting from such change.
RFI/0401/16346: Technical clarification of Access Control between Door and SACS schedule. Door 88-CL30-2478.01 SACS Type 2A was issued under El726 in February 2018. The Contractor has no entitlement
to additional time and/or cost given that it was a known event prior to SAA8 Effective Date.
RFI No.
16346: Door No. L30-2478.01 was reviewed via Workshops and finalized by Engineer’s Instruction 681D.
Accordingly, the door was implemented, fabricated and installed on site. Along with the EI 681D, Door
Schedule was provided showing the specific details of the door, confirmed during the Door and
Hardware workshop by KPF, ADAC and JV. To avoid of raising thousands of RFI from the inaccurate and
ambiguous details from the IFC Door Schedule rev 31 by Bulletin 245, workshop was implemented.
RFI No. 16346 has been raised to clarify once again the discrepancy found in SACS Shop Drawing having
SACS 2A while as per Engineer’s Instruction 681D the door does not require SACS.
The door had already been fabricated and installed on site by EI no. 681D with a stage 2 approved WIR.
It also does not exist in the door schedule provided in Bulletin 249, if the door required SACS 2A then,
the Architect should provide an appropriate HW Set and other technical details with the Door Schedule.
Moreover, we also made it clear in Notice No. 107 that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1
thereto introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works, including but not limited to
changes to Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc. These were identified in
Annex A thereto. Because of this, this cannot possibly be construed as a matter that was known of prior
to SAA8. Therefore, we maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or cost resulting from such change
RFI/0401/17157: According to the response to RFI/0401/14710, the Contractor's proposal to relocate
the fire protection riser inside the circulation room 0595.14 was not acceptable. The Contractor
subsequently proposed covering the exposed pipes by dry wall type 1-5 and provide a new RHR door for
0603.01 for the accessibility. This proposal was accepted on the basis that there will be no additional
cost and/or impact to the Programme thus the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or
cost and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies. RFI No. 17157: As per KPF’s confirmation, the existing door is
RH.
JV proposed a new sketch for approval and yet under KPF review. In the proposal, the door will be
installed as RH, no re-fabrication is required. The existing door which has been installed can be used.
That said, we also made it clear in Notice No. 107 that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1
thereto (including RFI/0401/17157) introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works,
including but not limited to changes to Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc.
These were identified in Annex A thereto.

This cannot possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24. We maintain all our rights
and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from such
change.
RFI/0401/17158: The Contractor, due to the site conditions and as a result of a lack of coordination,
could not install the door at the IFC location and the Contractor then proposed to fix it at the door's
marked location. The Contractor's proposal was accepted in order to assist the Contractor and there is
no entitlement to additional cost and/or time and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies. RFI No. 17158:
We refute that this particular issue is a result of a “lack of coordination” on our part. We made it clear in
Notice No. 107 that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1 thereto (including RFI/0401/17158)
introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works, including but not limited to changes to
Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc. These were identified in Annex A
thereto.
This cannot possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24. We maintain all our rights
and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from such
change.
RFI/0401/17056: This RFI was issued by the Contractor as a result of a lack of site coordination.
According to the IFC Drawings, Room 88.C. LI0.0113 .43 AS is designated as a storage room. As per the
site installation, the storage room is fully occupied with the Fire Standpipe and Sprinkler Valve Piping
works and can no longer be used as a storage room. Therefore, the function of the room has changed.
Door 0113.01 requires SCS-2A. Again the Contractor's proposal was to overcome a lack of coordination
and in order to assist the Contractor, this was accepted and therefore does not provide the Contract or
with an entitlement to additional cost and/or time and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
RFI No. 17056:
Contractor’s proposal is to change the handing of the door from RH to RHR, however as per the RFI
reply, the function of the room also changed and SACS requirements have been added to the door. The
additional changes introduced do not form part of our aforementioned proposal. The additional changes
require cabling for the SACS requirement. The existing door installed cannot be utilized. This cannot
possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24. We maintain all our rights and
entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from such change.
RFI/0401/17185: This is a discrepancy between the door schedule and the IFC Architectural drawing. The
approved shop drawing includes this door and the discrepancy amongst the documents should have
been highlighted prior to the fabrication. This is a result of a lack of coordination with the door schedule
and the approved shop drawings. Door no: L30-02375.01 was deleted by El No. 681F as TPS door. As per
the latest IFC Architectural drawing MTC-A-02-TB-L3 .0-5.12-00.642_rev-12 and approved shop drawing
No. 401-JV-A-04-30-5.12D-GA-SD-003_rev-OO, Door L30-1375.01 exist in the washroom No. 30.P2 for
the Janitor closet. Therefore, the Contractor has no entitlement to any additional time and/or cost and
Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
RFI No. 17185: Door No. L30-02375.01 was reviewed via Workshops
and by the Engineer’s Instruction 681F. Accordingly, the door was never implemented and fabricated.
Along with the EI 681F, a Door Schedule was provided showing the specific details of the door,
confirming the door and Hardware to be deleted as discussed during the workshops by KPF, ADAC and
JV.
We received the approved shop drawing No. 401-JV-A-04-30-5.12D-GA-SD-003_rev-00 on 04 April 2017,
it’s a 5 months period after the Engineer’s Instruction was received to delete the door. The issue
whether the door exists or has been deleted, originates from the discoordination of the Employer’s
Design Consultant.
This cannot be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24.
Moreover, we also made it clear in Notice No. 107 that your responses to all seven RFIs listed in Table 1
thereto introduced substantial changes to our original scope of Works, including but not limited to
changes to Doors, Doors Hardware, Fire/ Acoustic Rating, SACS, Handing etc. These were identified in

Annex A thereto. In view of this as well as the above, we maintain all our rights and entitlements under
the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from such change.
Notice No. 126 - Changes to Contour Levels from the Employer-Request for Engineer's Instruction (RFEI)
/ Variation Order (VO)
Regarding the referred changes in levels, areas, crib wall scope and manhole modifications, these
changes were discussed at length with the Contractor and agreement has been reached with the
Contractor, which was merely formalized via the RFI process. The Contractor has proceeded with the
works following these agreements which has not created any additional scope nor abortive works for
the Contractor. The alleged delay resulting from the revised piping layout for the VVIP water feature was
a failure by the Contractor to coordinate these works and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies. Notice No. 126
lists the events of continuous changes to the contour levels including the agreement (verbal agreement)
that was confirmed by our Project Director via email only during March 2019, that we shall claim no
extra cost for that.
However, even after the said ‘agreement’, further design changes occurred and the latest changes were
confirmed via your last response to RFIs 17221 and 17244 on 14 July 2019.
It is not understood from your response how such continuous changes have no impact on the project
especially when the abortive and required works impacted by those changes, necessitates us to revise
the logistic plan and keep open access on its permanent works just to complete the impacted related
works which took place up to the last quarter of 2019.
For this reason and in consideration of all the factual evidence set out in our Notice No. 126, we
maintain that the further changes to the contour levels that were initially promulgated by you on 19
June 2019 and then subsequently agreed during meetings / discussions throughout June / July 2019 and
then confirmed within the RFI responses referenced in Table 2 thereto, have affected the progress of
the works described in Notice No. 126. This cannot possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8
Clause 2.24.
Accordingly, we maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from the changes to the contour levels required by you/the Employer.
The Engineer does not consider the events cited in this notice to have any impact on the critical path of
the Project and such impact was not demonstrated.
As regards your comment that we have not
demonstrated that this event had any impact on the critical path of the Project; while delay analysis
fragnets for this event were impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have
a critical impact on completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the
effects of delay and disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial
Completion.
Accordingly, we reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time and/or cost associated with the
changes if in the event the delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are
subsequently found.
Notice No.100 -Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17162- Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 Fire Curtain at
Hotel - Changes in Scope: Request for Engineer's Instruction / VO
Note You have erroneously referenced this event as Notice No. 100, when in fact the subject matter
(Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17162- Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 Fire Curtain at Hotel - Changes
in Scope: Request for Engineer's Instruction / VO) is subject to Notice No. 110. The response to your
comments to Notice No. 110 is addressed later in this schedule. Meanwhile your response outlined
hereunder refers to Notice No. 100 i.e. ‘Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/16803, RFI/0401/16865,
RFI/0401/16852, RFI/0401/16929 - Requirement for Door Position Sensor to Shaft Access HatchesRequest for Engineer's Instruction / Variation Order (VO)’

The Contractor in the submitted E-Notice requested for an Engineer's Instruction and a Variation. The
Engineer responded to the Contractor's request that there is no entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost. Section 083116 para 1.2.C of the Specifications states "Provide access panels and frames for
access to mechanical, plumbing and electrical Work located behind or above finished walls or ceilings
which require access, whether or not such panels are indicated on Drawings"
We made it very clear in Notice No. 100 that having submitted a series of four (4) RFIs
requesting further clarification of the design and scope of works associated with various shaft accesses,
the responses to these RFIs included a list of requirements including inter alia a statement that "All
access panels to be equipped with SACS type-0 (Door position sensor)".
The SACS sensors are additional to our scope of Works shown on current IFC Drawings and out with the
requirement to “provide access panels and frames for access to mechanical, plumbing and electrical
Work … requiring access” per Specifications Section 083116.
In quoting elements of this specification you have focussed on ‘access panels, which is not the basis of
our claim. This is plainly reflected in the title “Requirement for Door Position Sensor to Shaft Access
Hatches”.
Access panels, particularly those in walls, are openings that allow passage for people to access
mechanical spaces/shafts where equipment is located. As many mechanical shafts cross multiple floor
levels, there is a high likelihood that these also cross multiple security zones. Therefore, any such
passageway that allows persons to cross security zones must be equipped with door position indicators
as part of the Security Access Control System (refer to Section 281300 Clause 2.2 D) which states " Each
door and shutter that shall allow passage from one security zone to another shall be provided with a
door or shutter position indication. Position indicators shall monitor and initiate an alarm at an operator
workstation based on the settings of the individual door" As such the door position indicators are
required and the RFI response does not constitute a change and Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies.
We note your comment that “there is a high likelihood that [the access panels] also cross
multiple security zones. Therefore, any such passageway that allows persons to cross security zones
must be equipped with door position indicators as part of the Security Access Control System …” The
fact you state “there is a high likelihood” means you are not sure whether sensors are required or not.
Therefore how can we be expected to second guess or otherwise assume whether any sensors are
required – especially given the fact they are not indicated on any IFC Drawings; hence the reason for
issuing the RFIs.
We are not the designer for the Project, the Employer’s Design Consultant is. While we accept there is a
requirement for access panels [shown upon the IFC Drawings] the sensors are not. However, you are
implying that not only are we responsible for establishing the doors requiring sensors, but are implying
that we are somehow responsible for supplying and installing these at our own cost and this does not
entitle us to additional time.
It remains a matter of fact that your responses to the RFIs listed within Table 1 to Notice No. 100 were
not only late by upwards of 107 calendar days, but are detailings a requirement for additional works, i.e.
provision of SACS Type-0 (Door Position Sensors) which is are out with of our Work scope.
This cannot possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24. Accordingly, we maintain
all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost associated
with the provision of additional SACS Type-0 (Door Position Sensors).
Notice No. 99- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17023- Requirement for Additional Road Marking at
Airside- Request for Engineer's Instruction / Variation Order (VO)
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's Instruction (EI No
785) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in respect of the additional traffic
markings. Until such time the ROM proposal is submitted, reviewed and a subsequent Variation Order is

issued, the Contract or has no entitlement to any additional time and/or cos (Clause 2.29 of SAA8).
We note your comments referring to the need for a ROM and TIA in respect of the additional
road markings, which clearly demonstrates your acknowledgment that the response to RFI/0401/17023
and attached sketch drawings, are reflecting works that is are additional to our scope.
In this respect, we maintain the stamen made in Notice No. 99 that “Any requirement for additional
works, in this case, additional road marking, at such a late stage of the Project, is very likely to impact
upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion).”
Notice No. 94 - Engineer's Failure to Provide IFC to Set-up SACS Initial Database (RFI/0401/16926)
The Contractor has been provided with an update of the required access profile groups as received from
ADAC's Security on 11 June 2019. The profiles were entered into the SACS system by Atlas and
confirmed to the Engineer at the SACS weekly Progress Meeting No.125. Any delay that allegedly
incurred is attributable to the Contractor's delays in the implementation of the initial access database.
Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8 applies. Your comments are noted but we refute your allegation that any delay
incurred is attributable to the Contractor's delays in the implementation of the initial access database
and that Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8 applies.
We reiterate salient aspects of our Notice No. 94:
On 10 March 2019, we issued RFI/0401/16926 Rev 0 in connection with the SACS requesting you to
assist with the "collection of all necessary information to prepare the initial database with approved
access"
On 18 March 2019 you replied to RFI/0401/16926-00. However, rather than provide us with the
information requested [which as noted in our Notice No. 94, you are obligated to do so], your reply read
as follows: 'No objection to the structure of the table in Excel. Content of the table is not for the Design
Consultant to review, revise or integrate'.
This KPF provided response blatantly failed to provide the information expressly requested of you.
Nevertheless, on 6 May 2019 (49 calendar days later), you issue a Rev. 01 response to RFI/0401/16926
00 but the information annotated upon / attached thereto was inconclusive and failed to provide the
information essential for the SACS data base.
You have since confirmed we were issued an update of the required access profile groups as received
from ADAC's Security on 11 June 2019.
This is three months after it was first requested. We therefore fail to see how the delay can be
construed as “attributable to the Contractor’s delays in the implementation of the initial access
database.” Moreover, as our RFI was first issued on 10 March 2019 we also fail to see how this ‘event’
can be regarded as being part of the ‘included circumstances’ pursuant to Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
Consequently, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No.94.
Notice No.103 - Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/16957 - Hardware Installation to Doors with Different
Floor Levels: Request for Engineer's Instruction / Variation Order
The information related to the floor level difference has been known and is reflected in the IFC
Drawings, based on the instructed VE by the Employer. The Contractor's door schedules were also
reviewed by the Design Consultant/Engineer and issued by late 2017. Our position remains as
comprehensively set out in our Notice No. 103. We reiterate the floor level difference evidenced on site
has arisen due to a deficiency in the IFC Drawings prepared by the Employer’s Design Consultant in so
far as the structural slab elevations/levels indicated on the IFC Drawings are not Code compliant as
‘means of egress’. IBC 2006 Section 1008.1.4 [Floor Elevation] expressly states: "There shall be a floor or
landing on each side of a door. Such floor or landing shall be at the same elevation on each side of the

door. Landings shall be level except for exterior landings, which are permitted to have a slope not to
exceed 0.25 unit vertical in 12 units horizontal {2-percent slope)".
As noted, this is not reflected in the IFC Drawings; hence the reason for raising RFI/0401/16957, which
despite being raised on 27 March 2019, failed to be responded to until 29 April 2019. The response also
failed to address our query; rather you deviated from the main issue and insisted that we were to
coordinate the hardware installation with other trades and issue coordination drawings.
We repeat: this is a design defect and relates to a design coordination issue and a failure of the
Employer’s Design Consultant to design the Works to accord to the requirements of the International
Building Code. We are not responsible for the Codes which have been violated, as stated in our Notice.
We note once more that we are only required to notify you of a deficiency once it is detected which is
what we did. Our responsibility is to follow with due diligence the Drawings and Specifications, and it is
our position that we have discharged, and continue to discharge, this obligation with the necessary
expertise, care and skill that could reasonably be expected from an experienced contractor. We refute
your comment that we are responsible for this design coordination issue / defective design – this is the
responsibility of the Employer’s Design Consultant; it is also his responsibility to address and overcome
it; not us. Therefore for you to allege that we are responsible for preparing coordination drawings is
entirely misguided and erroneous and fails to address the issue at hand.
We also fail to see how this matter can be construed as a ‘known event’. As noted RFI/0401/16957 was
raised on 27 March 2019 and failed to be responded to until 29 April 2019. If the issue had come to light
earlier, then we would have raised the RFI earlier. The fact remains, as noted above, is a design defect /
design coordination issue and requires the Employer’s Design Consultant’s input to overcome it; he
failed to do so.
We remind you that any need for additional work, i.e. (1) the installation of landings and/or (2) changes
to the door hardware which may need to be re-ordered and installed, (3) a survey to determine the
project wide affect, at such a late stage of the Project, is very likely to impact upon our ability to achieve
Milestone MS9C.
Hence we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or
cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 103.
We refer to the Conditions of Contract and in particular to Clauses 13.1.1, 13.1.2, 13.5.1 and Div. 01
Specification Section 013113, and remind the Contractor of their responsibility to coordinate and
provide detailed coordination drawings for all integrated systems including doors.
Prior to commencing any works on site, the Contractor shall have in place detailed coordinated drawings
approved by the Engineer. The Contractor shall also field verify the exact locations and dimensions and
other pertinent information of all existing conditions that are associated with the referred works.
The Contractor has failed to integrate the referred list of doors with floor levels and did not provide any
coordination drawings for the Engineer's review and has been proceeding to fabrication with a doors
schedule and was further installing the doors on site without any coordination drawings. This is also the
case for other components which the Contractor proceeded with its installation without any
coordination example door height conflict with ceilings).
We again remind the Contractor of their obligations as per Clause 13.5.1 of the Conditions of Contract
by which the Contractor's execution of the works shall comply with the
Local/Project's technical standard (IBC 2006 for this project) and the Contractor should highlight any
deviation(s) from the applicable Code prior to any fabrication and further installations on site.
The referred RFI was raised only on 19 March 2019, after the installation of the works on site which
demonstrates the Contractor's failure to adhere to the Contract requirements related to site installation.
In light of the above, the Contractor is required to coordinate the door detail/hardware with the floor
finish based on the direction given in the RFI (the RFI clarified clearly which 3 doors out of 55 doors

queried to have a landing). The RFI response has addressed the query and provided the Contractor with
directions to proceed. As this is a known event, the provisions of SAA8 Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 applies.
Notice No.0108 - Engineer's Late and Unreasonable Comments to RFI/0401/16986 for Access Ramps for
BHS Rolling Shutter Doors: Request for Engineer's Instruction / VO
The Engineer notes that Specification Section 083323 Clause 1.3 A, clearly states "The Contractor is
responsible for the design of connections and fixings f or overhead coiling doors and related elements,
including interfaces and coordination with works of adjoining trades, to satisfy aesthetic effects and
performance requirements. As scope and performance documents, the drawings and specifications do
not necessarily indicate or describe in detail all Work required for the full performance and completion
of the works". We note your comments in relation to various provisions of the noted Specifications but
fail to see how this relates to the issues addressed in our Notice No. 108.
By way of a reminder, we issued RFI/0401/16986 on 27 March 2019 advising you of issues relating to the
current design of the access ramps for the BHS roller shutter doors and requesting that you give
consideration for changing the interlocking block paving to a concrete slab. This was prompted by
discussions with the rolling shutter and induction loop supplier, who advised that the induction loop
cables cannot physically be installed in a block pavement [as per the original design] due to the fact that
block paving but its nature has the potential for settlement; the induction loop is traditionally buried in
concrete.
We reiterate that the induction loop cannot be installed in a movable substrate. The interlocking pavers
have joints filled with sand. Hence they have the tendency to move. Added to which, the warranty
cannot be provided for this loop to be installed in the pavers. Since our notice was issued, we have
installed 2 no. induction loops as a mock-up to test the pavers, but this can only be assessed until we run
traffic over it.
We requested a response RFI/0401/16986 by 5 April 2019 but you failed to reply for a further 17
calendar days later, i.e. on 22 April 2019. We further remind you that your response contained
comments that we consider unreasonable and misleading, but you also endeavoured to introduce
surreptitious changes to the existing design and the scope of our Works. This was clearly set out in Table
2 to our Notice No. 108.
Meanwhile, Notice No. 108 notified you of the delays associated with the ‘Late and Unreasonable
Comments to RFI/0401/16986 for Access Ramps for BHS Rolling Shutter Doors’ and also served a
‘Request for Engineer's Instruction / Variation Order on the basis that under SAA8 an El and VO are
needed for us to proceed with the requisite changes. We also made it clear that until such time as you
do so, we are unable to proceed with implementing any changes and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
For the reasons set out in our Notice No. 108 and reiterated here, we maintain our rights and
entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from this event
(late response to RFI/0401/16986 and the comments annotated therein requiring us to introduce
changes to the design and scope of fast acting shutters).
In addition to the above, and as per the performance requirements of Specification Section 013113
(Overhead Coiling Doors) Clause 1.3.A.2, the Contractor shall provide all items required for the proper
completion of the Works without adjustment to the Contract price.
The referred drawing in the Contractor's E-Notice for the rolling shutters was approved with comments
back in 2017 therefore it is considered to be included in the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No.
8 (SAA8) and moreover the Specifications clearly states the aesthetic and performance requirements. It
was up to the Contractor, to coordinate the requirements in the Contract drawings and Specifications,
highlighting any issues requiring the Engineer's directions through an RFI in a timely manner, and to
prepare the coordinated drawings based on the clarifications provided in the RFI for an Engineer's

approval. The RFI was only recently raised on 27 March 2019, requesting confirmation of the
Contractor's proposal for the change of the pavement material.
We refer the Contractor to Div. 01 Specification Section 01 3113, and remind the Contractor of their
responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any discrepancies through the RFI process and
not to withhold any information regarding known discrepancies or requirements.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has any entitlement to additional time
and/or cost given the Contractor's obligations under Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8 and the other
provisions mentioned above.
Notice No.135- Engineer's Response to RFI-16984 -17 nos Outstanding Door Workshop for Offices and
Lounges- Request for Engineers Instruction (RFEI) and Variation Order (VO)
Note: the actual title of this Notice / Delay Event, is ‘Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/16984 - Multiple
Changes to 17 Doors and Door Hardware Sets to Offices and Lounges to CP L2.1, L3.0, L3.1 and L3.2 Request for Engineer's Instruction (RFEI) and Variation Order (VO)’ and not what you have cited above.
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's Instruction (EI
No786) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in respect of the changes to the
Door Schedules. The ROM proposal has not been submitted by the Contractor as of the cut off date of
its claim and therefore until such time this is submitted, reviewed and a subsequent Variation Order is
issued, the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost (Clause 2.29 of SAA8). We
note your comments referring to the need for a ROM and TIA in respect of “the changes to the Door
Schedule”, thus demonstrating your acknowledgment that the response to RFI/0401/16984 and
attached marked up version of the [door] schedule reflect work that is additional to our scope.
In this respect, we maintain the statement made in Notice No. 135 that “your / the Employer’s Design
Consultant’s requirements to introduced fundamental changes to the doors and door hardware sets,
such as those outlined [therein], particularly at such a late stage of the project, will invariably impact
upon our ability to obtain the Building Completion certificate (BCC). This is essential to achieving
Milestone MS9B and may impact MS9C …”
Consequently, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 135.
Notice No 129 - Provision of Additional Power Supplies to Hold Open Doors to 8 Doors to Sections 5.16
and 5.21 to Level L0.1- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17164- Request for IFC Drawings plus Engineers
Instruction and Variation Order
The E-Notice refers to the provision of additional power supplies to eight hold open doors to Level L0.1.
As per the Engineer's assessment, this is not considered a change, but a discrepancy among the Contract
documents (Door Schedule and IFC Drawings.). The approved Door Schedule (DS-10833 dated 11
January 2018) includes the hardware set, however this was not indicated in the electrical IFC layouts.
This discrepancy was known to the Contractor since January 2018 (i.e. prior to the Effective Date of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8) and so is an included circumstances/event under
Clause 1.7.4. However, the Contractor raised the RFI in May 2019, requesting clarification on this
discrepancy. The RFI response has addressed the query and provided the Contractor with the directions
to proceed.
Your comments are rejected in their entirety. You are reminded that it was because of
substantial discrepancies in design documents issued by you relating to doors, door hardware and
related systems that a number of workshops were held to try and resolve them. Notwithstanding the
history of prevarication on your part in fully addressing and resolving such issues, it became apparent
during our various workshops / meetings that the technical information/requirements to a significant
number of doors had changed; hence the reason for raising the RFIs recorded in our Notice No. 129.

For example, we raised RFI/0401/1700 on 1 April 2019 requesting: (1) confirmation of the information
reflected in the attached door schedule [reflecting the agreed changes, including a request for the
access control types and related information]; and (2), an updated door schedule and IFC Drawings in
confirmation of the same. Your reply not only failed to provide the updated Door Schedule and IFC
Drawings information as requested, but had introduced changes to some doors. Notable you failed to
reply until 9 May 2019
However, owing to further anomalies in the response, we were forced to raise RFI/0401/17164 on 29
May 2019 requesting your assistance with providing further clarification as to the 'missing power supply
for [the] Hold Open Devices' for eight (8) Nos. of doors. You failed to reply until 26 June 2019. Not only
that but the power assist requirements had changed, requiring additional power supplies. This is a
change; and as such notified you of the invariable time/cost impacts in Notice No. 129.
We therefore fail to see how this matter can be construed as forming part of the included circumstances
per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
We also fail to see how you can state that you do not consider that we have an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost? This matter relates to a variation to the existing design and scope of our
Works that ought to have been validly instructed by way of revised IFC Drawings and accompanying EI,
but was not, rather it was introduced by ‘stealth’ through an RFI response.
Notwithstanding your failure to honour your obligations under SAA8 in relation to change, for the
reasons set out in our Notice No. 129 and repeated here, we maintain our rights and entitlements under
the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice
No. 129.
The Contractor is required to highlight such discrepancy and seek directions in a timely manner. We
refer the Contractor to the provisions of Div. 01 of the Specifications Section 0131 13 and remind the
Contractor of their responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any discrepancies through
the RFI process and not to withhold any information regarding known discrepancies. Furthermore,
according to Clause 2.24 of SAA8, it is deemed that the Contract or has reviewed the drawings, designs
and Specifications and confirmed that these do not contain any errors.
In light of the above we do not consider the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time and/or
cost.
Notice No.116- Delays to Glazing and 3rd Fix installation due to activities of the Employer's Other
Contractor's Works (DEPA - Lifting Frame for Material Shifting)
According to Clause 2.11 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8) in combination
with Clause 12.11 of the Conditions of Contract, the Contractor has an obligation to provide to the
Employer's Other Contractors (including the Fit-Out Contractors) appropriate opportunities for carrying
out their respective works.
There have been numerous email exchanges regarding this matter
between Aecom’s staff as seen in emails subsequent to the issuance of our E-Notice No. 116. We note
that our E-notice No. 116 was sent on 23 July 2019. We also note and reiterate that we have been ready
to close the opening since April 2019, but due to the activities of the Employer's Other Contractor
(DEPA), our works have been put and continue to be on hold. On October 02, 2019 9:36 AM we received
an email from Tarek Abou Jamra stating that we “can proceed to close the level 3.1 Logistics opening on
the 10th of October 2019 as below confirmed”.
However, on 13 October 2019 at 11:37 AM we received another email from Aecom requesting us to
further put our works on hold stating that “DEPA are reconsidering their access onto Level 3.1 so please
hold off doing anything further. Thanks for your efforts so far”.

Thus this proves that we are not to be held responsible for DEPA’s delays associated to these works. This
is an act of prevention on the part of the Employer’s Other Contractor and / or the Engineer, and cannot
possibly be construed as forming part of SAA8 Clause 2.11.
As regards your comment that we have not evidenced that this event is critical; while delay analysis
fragnets for this event were impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have
a critical impact on completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the
effects of delay and disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial
Completion.
Accordingly, we hereby reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time and/or cost if in the
event the delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
In light of the above and upon discussion between all relevant parties, the Contractor provided a No
Objection Certificate (NOC) where approval was provided for preserving the opening at Level 3.1 until
August 2019 for DEPA to be able to perform their works. Therefore, we do not consider that the
Contractor has merit in asserting that they have an entitlement to additional time and/or cost.
Additionally, and with regard to the Contractor's statement that this issue is critical for the achievement
of Milestone MS09B, we record that Milestone 09B's Completion Date was on 30 June 2019, and the
Contractor has failed to achieve it as a result of the numerous Contractor delays. The status of the works
related to Milestone 9B by 30th June 2019 has been notified to the Contractor via ref. MTC-CMA-TCA0401-LTR-11003. Considering the outstanding works summarized in MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11068, we
advise that the Contractor has not evidenced nor substantiated how this event has had an impact to the
overall completion of MS09B.
Notice 097 - Delays to ADCD Approval and Obtaining Building Completion Certificate (BCC) Due to
Additional Fire Life Safety Devices Required by House of Expertise
The ADCD package reviews allowed the Design Consultant to cross check for the coordination between
the different FLS systems in the building. Inevitably, this review process identified some issues which the
Contractor has missed in their coordination of the systems. As the Contractor is aware, any
coordination issues identified by the Design Consultant during their review are the Contractor's
responsibility and any potential time impact remains the responsibility of the Contractor. In addition,
the Contractor has not substantiated in their Time Impact Analysis the alleged impact of this E-Notice to
their Programme.
Your comments are refuted in their entirety.
The matters detailed in the content of and attachments to our Notice No. 097 relate to comments made
by the HOE and endorsed on our Shop Drawings indicating the requirements for additional FLS devices
(Smoke Detectors, Strobes, Horn Strobes, Manual Call Points, Speakers, Heat Detectors, Exit and
Emergency Lights), that are not shown upon IFC Drawings, nor were they previously subject to any
Briefing Packs/Engineer's Instructions.
The numbers of additional FLS devices required are substantial and are exactly that, additional. They
cannot possibly be construed or dismissed as merely being “some issues” which were allegedly “missed”
by us in our “coordination of the systems”. Nor can they be construed as being our responsibility.
We therefore remind you that it took an inordinate amount of time for you to respond to our Shop
Drawing Submittals, taking upwards of 136 calendar days to respond, which given that most of the
submittals were at Rev. 2 or above, is 129 calendar days later that the time specified in the Contract.
Moreover, the changes introduced by the HOE through comments on our shop drawings are substantial;
all of which are out with the existing IFC design and our scope of Works.
In this respect, we maintain the statement made in Notice No. 097: “any requirement especially at this
late stage of the Project, for us to alter the FLS system will impact upon our ability to complete the

remaining Works and/or testing and commissioning, and invariably impact upon achievement of
Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion).”
As regards your penultimate comment that we have not substantiated in our Time Impact Analysis the
alleged impact that this Notice had, we reply as follows: While delay analysis fragnets for this event
were impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have a critical impact on
completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and
disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We do
however reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the
delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has any entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No.134 - Overdue Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/FC/0127 Rev. 01 – CUSS Workstation
Operating System
The Contractor is reminded that in order to avoid any potential delays, they are required to submit the
drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications otherwise
there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for Completion.
The principle aspect of Notice No. 134 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the Material
Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). In
relation to our Notice No. 134 it is a matter of fact that you took upwards of an additional 15 calendar
days to respond to our Submittals; this is in addition to the contractually stipulated review period(s)
stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the
Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we have any entitlement to
additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any culpability on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner.
As regards your comment that we have not evidenced that the overdue responses to the noted
Submittals has delayed our works on the critical path of the Project; while delay analysis fragnets for this
event were impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have a critical impact
on completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay
and disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We
do however reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the
delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
The Contractor has neither evidenced that they have submitted the documents in a timely manner nor
that the "overdue" response has affected their works and impacted the critical path.

In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contract or has any entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No. 113 -Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17064 - Re-introduction of Door No. L30-0672-01 Request for Engineer's Instruction (RFEI) I Variation Order (VO)
The submitted E-Notice refers to a discrepancy among the Contract documents (door schedule and
approved shop drawing.) The approved shop drawing (approval date was 19 January 2017) includes the
referred door with the door tag. The Engineer's Instruction No. 681F issued on OS September 2017
indicates the referred door as being deleted. This discrepancy was known to the Contractor since
September 2017 i.e prior to the Effective Date of SAA8 and is therefore provided for in SAA8 under
Clause 1.7.4 (included circumstance). Our position remains as comprehensively set out in Notice No.
0113.
We raised RFI/0401/17064 on 24 April 2019 requesting clarification whether Door Ref: L30-0672-01
(previously omitted from our scope), was required or not? Despite requesting a response to
RFI/0401/17064 by 30 April 2019, you failed to reply for until 11 May 2019. Moreover, you advised that
the door in question "still exists" but is not a TPS door. Attached to your response was two sketches,
consisting a marked up / clouded IFC Drawing plus a partial extract of a revised Door Schedule. This reintroduced door L30-0672-01 and therefore represents a change.
We remind you that the issue subject to our Notice is attributable to a failure on your part to provide a
final fully coordinated and completed IFC [door] design that accurately reflects the Employer’s
requirements, as well as a failure to promptly respond to the various queries and ambiguities in the
existing design as soon as they are identified by us.
In view of the foregoing, we fail to see how this matter can be construed as forming part of the included
circumstances per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
We also fail to see how you can state that you do not consider that we have an entitlement to any
additional time and/or cost? This matter relates to a variation to the existing design and scope of our
Works that ought to have been validly instructed by way of revised IFC Drawings and accompanying EI,
but was not, rather it was introduced by ‘stealth’ through an RFI response. Notwithstanding your failure
to honour your obligations under SAA8 in relation to change, for the reasons set out in our Notice No.
113 and repeated here, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 113.
The RFI was raised by the Contractor only in April 2019, requesting for a clarification. The RFI response
has addressed the query and provided the Contractor with the required directions of how to proceed.
The Contractor is required to highlight any encountered discrepancies and seek directions in a timely
manner. We refer to Div. 01 Specification Section 01 31 13, and remind the Contractor of their
responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any discrepancies through the RFI process and
to withhold any information regarding known discrepancies. Clause 2.24 of SAA8 applies and in light of
the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to additional time and/or cost.
Notice No.96- Overdue Responses to 538 As-Built Drawings as at 23 May 2019 including but not limited
to Electrical, Mechanical, Local Area Network, Passenger Boarding Bridges Structural Steel, Elevators and
Escalators [issued vide 64 Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is reminded of
their obligations to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of
the Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for Completion. The
Contractor has committed to complete all its submissions by Q4 2018 and unfortunately this was not
adhered to.
The principle aspect of Notice No. 96 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the As-Built
Drawing Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300
‘Submittal Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are

contractually obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days
respectively for submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to
adhere to these review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention
and gives rise to entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone,
completion of the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause
16.5.1 (c). In relation to our Notice No. 96, it is a matter of fact that you took upwards of an additional
87 calendar days to respond to our Submittals; this is in addition to the contractually stipulated review
period(s) stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what
the Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we have any entitlement to
additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner. This also applies irrespective of any alleged commitment on our part to submit all
our submissions by Q4 2018 as well as any alleged failure to adhere to our own submittal targets and
the dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
As regards your comment that our statement that the delay in the review of As-Built Drawings will
“potentially” impact on our ability to achieve Substantial Completion is “unfounded”, we respond as
follows: The cut-off date utilised in Notice No. 96 is 29 May 2019. The period addressed by our Post
SAA8 – TIA No. 2 is from 2 May 2019 to 1 August 2019. Hence it could well be that the effects of this
event were not felt i.e. not critical at the point in time they were impacted. That is not to say that this
event may subsequently delay and/or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and disruption at the
point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We do however reserve
our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the delaying/disruptive
effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of As-Built Drawings will potentially have
an impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and the Engineer has on
numerous occasions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their own submittal's targets and the
dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No.104 -Overdue Responses to Contractor's MSI Document Submittals at 05 September 2019
Response required
The Contractor's claim that as a result of overdue responses the ability of their MSI Subcontractor to
procure, deliver and subsequently install any related hardware has been affected, is refuted. There are
no Material Approval Requests included within the summary provided by the MSI.
The
principle
aspect of Notice No. 104 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the MSI Document Submittals cited
therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ sets
out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually obligated to review and
respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for submittals that are at Rev. 00,
Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these review times constitutes an
unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to entitlement ‘to an extension
to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of the Works required for that

Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). We acknowledge your comment
in relation to there being “many” documents submitted for information only but a review of your
comments set out in Appendix A to your letter [ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11092] shows that this
only concerns 12 out of the 37 submittals cited in our notice. In other words, the majority of the
Document Submittals were ‘Action Submittals’ requiring action on your part and for you to review and
respond in the manner outlined above.
In relation to our Notice No. 104, it is a matter of fact that [looking purely at the Action Submittals] you
still took upwards of an additional 70 calendar days to respond to our Submittals; this is in addition to
the contractually stipulated review period(s) stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and
irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not
consider that we have any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner. This also applies irrespective of your contention there are no Material Approval
Requests included in the summary of MSI Document submittals attached to our notice.
As regards your comment alluding to alleged culpability on our part for delays to the Programme caused
by late and / or incomplete MSI submittals (which is denied) and that such delay is critical to completion,
then the burden of proof for determining such rests with you.
We note that many documents were submitted "For Information Only". These are related to the closeout of the Integration Verification Test phase, however we record that the MSI has not proceeded to
complete the closeout of that phase, subsequent to the Code 1 review of applicable documents.
We record that the Contractor did not submit the Testing and Commissioning documents in a timely
manner (Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 01 33 00 the Specifications) prior to the scheduled tests. The
Engineer allowed the tests to proceed despite the late submittal of documents whilst these were still
under review.
In light of the above, should any delays be caused to the Programme, these are deemed to be
attributable to the Contractor's late and/or incomplete submissions.
Notice No.111- Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 0111 [post-SAA8] Engineer's Pending
Confirmation for Outstanding Doors Issues
The Engineer has responded to the Contractor's submitted Notice and an Engineer's Instruction (EI
No786) was issued for the Contractor to submit a ROM proposal and TIA in respect of the additional
Doors. Until such time the ROM proposal be submitted, reviewed and a subsequent Variation Order is
issued, the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost (Clause 2.29 of SAA8). As of the
cut off date of the Contractor's TIA, this ROM was not submitted.
We note your comments
referring to the need for a ROM and TIA in respect of “the additional Doors”, thereby demonstrating
your acknowledgment that the matters described in our Notice No. 111 is are additional to our scope.
Consequently, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 111.
Please note that we have since issued letter dated 31 October 2019 (ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014961)
expressing our disappointment that you have failed to provide clarification for all of the outstanding
doors issues and elected to issue an El for 41 nos. doors only disregarding the remaining hundreds of

outstanding doors. Accordingly we reiterate that the risk of delay and / or additional cost impacts
remains with you.
Notice No.95 - Overdue Responses to 867 Shop Drawings as at 23 May 2019 including but not limited to
Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Landscaping, Ceiling, and Road Marking Shop Drawings
etc. [issued vide 295 Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is required to
submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of the Specifications
otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for Completion. The Contractor did not
adhere to the Rev. 112 Baseline Programme submission dates. The principle aspect of Notice No. 95
was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the Shop Drawing Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article
1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly
defined processing times by which you are contractually obligated to review and respond to our
Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and
Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these review times constitutes an unequivocal
breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time
for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of the Works required for that Milestone …’
pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). In relation to our Notice No. 95, it is a matter
of fact that you took upwards of an additional 177 calendar days to respond to our Submittals; this is in
addition to the contractually stipulated review period(s) stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable
and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the Contract states and the facts and allege that you do
not consider that we have any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner. This also applies irrespective of any alleged failure on our part [which is denied] to
adhere to our own submittals’ targets and the dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
As regards your comment that our statement that the delay to the review of Shop Drawings will
“potentially” impact on our ability to achieve Substantial Completion is “unfounded”, we respond as
follows: The cut-off date utilised in Notice No. 95 is 23 May 2019. The period addressed by our Post
SAA8 – TIA No. 2 is from 2 May 2019 to 1 August 2019. Hence it could well be that the effects of this
event were not felt i.e. not critical at the point in time they were impacted. That is not to say that this
event may subsequently delay and/or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and disruption at the
point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We do however reserve
our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the delaying/disruptive
effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of Shop Drawings will potentially have an
impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and the Engineer has on
numerous occassions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their own submittals' targets.
In light of the above, the Contractor has not evidenced the alleged delay and thus we do not consider
that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time and/or cost.
Notice No. 112- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17181- Failure to Provide Confirmation on
Requirement for Additional Bollards at Departure Level (DAS- Level L2.0) - Request for Engineer's
Instruction I Variation Order (VO)

We note that the referenced delay/disruption event is consequent to the Contractor's failure to
coordinate the exact location of the bollards with the MTL Contractor in accordance with the
Contractor's contractual obligations and failure to act on the Code 2 comments issued over 2 years back
by the Employer's Design Consultant. Your statement about our alleged failure to coordinate is not
correct. We put on record that we have certainly coordinated through several meetings with all parties
involved and the final proposal of bollards is presented in BP 66 sketches. The BP 66 sketches, showing
spacing between bollards, are have been agreed and signed by all required parties. The very same
approved bollard’s spacing from BP 66 has been followed further in subcontractor drawings for bollards
and our architectural drawings.
We kindly remind you that spacing between bollards is caused by physical and technical reasons due to
non-availability of space within the area, since the whole area is occupied by expansion joints itself and
expansion joint’s periphery items such compression box.
Your review of the drawing for the road finishing, and your code 3 comments referencing to the bollard
spacing is an obvious conflict with what has been coordinated, agreed and signed by you in the Briefing
Pack 66, and followed further in our shop drawings.
The time impact is considerable since all bollards have been installed, while your design for extra bollard
is not available and not possible. Please note that in the case of re-arranging bollards there will be a
huge amount of abortive works, despite the facts that re-issuing of the drawings with non-fair
comments has also time and cost impact on the Engineering works.
Furthermore, the installation of these bollards does not constitute delays to the critical path of the
Project. The Contractor is therefore not entitled for an extension to the Time for Completion and
associated costs arising from the alleged delay event as this is provided for by Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8
(included circumstance).
As regards your comment that the installation of these bollards does
not constitute delays to the critical path, we wish to make clear that while delay analysis fragnets for
this event were impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have a critical
impact on completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the effects of
delay and disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial
Completion.
We do however reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the
delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
Under the circumstances, then we hereby maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to
recover the additional time and/or costs resulting from any act(s) of prevention on your part and / or
from changes to our scope of Works.
Notice No 130 -Missing General Arrangement Drawings for Security Cameras - Lounge Area Request f or
Provision of Updated IFC Drawings, Missing Elevations & Setting-Out Information etc. and an Engineer's
Instruction/Variation Order
We record that the required coordination with Etihad's Fit-Out Contractor has been done and the
Contractor obtained the required GA and furniture drawings in the CP L2 Etihad 1st Class Check-In area
(lounge). Advance copies of the drawings in CAD and PDF format have been reviewed and forwarded to
the Contractor on 19 September 2019. The requirements for the design and location of the 4 FR
cameras to be installed by the Contractor are available in the details of the drawings as noted by your
Subcontractor (Atlas). With regard to RFI No. 17132 that is referred to in the E-Notice, please note that
the Engineer has responded to the same on 17 June 2019. To date, the Contractor has not requested
any clarification regarding the 4 FR cameras. Therefore, any potential delays shall be attributed to the
Contractor and not the Employer.

By responding to this delay notice with letter MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11032, you actually
confirmed that the required documents were never provided officially at the time when we wrote the
initial delay notice,. fFurthermore even if it was mentioned in the letter that the required information is
attached, the CAD GA itself was still officially missing.
A detailed explanation follows:
Since we wrote E-Notice No. 130 on 27 August 2019 and you provided “advance copy” on 19
September 2019 (as per E-notice reply), at the time when we wrote the letter the word “alleged” is not
applicable. Actually you are confirming that at the time we wrote the E-Notice the drawings required
were not in our possession.
However since once again, you confirm that the data points are still not available (as per the Enotice reply), and these works actually are not in our scope, we cannot fulfil your second requirement
“completing the works in 1 week”, since we are being further delayed.
The attachments to this response contain only wall elevation and no CAD GA, only PDF. The
same is confirmed thru mail by you / the Employer which at a later date, you sent another “advance
copy” of GA, with the correct GA this time, but even then, the CAD document provided was not
following the project guidelines and did not provide the correct project coordinates and is therefore not
usable for implementation to Shop Drawings. Following above history the statement “To date, the
Contractor has not requested any clarification regarding the 4 FR cameras” is invalid.
Finally, it was agreed with you / the Employer’s Design Consultant, that since the information
required is still not usable, we would submit all relevant drawings without the aforesaid GA embedded,
and the Employer’s Design consultant would review the updated SD in the absence of the mentioned
GA.
In view of the foregoing, we reiterate the penultimate paragraphs of Annex A to our Notice No. 130 ‘the
absence of this critical information is preventing us from completing the security camera installations
inclusive of the required Shop Drawing submission, which if allowed to continue, will invariably knock on
to testing and commissioning and similarly affect our ability to complete As-Built Drawings and other
related close out documents, impacting our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B, and may also prevent
us from achieving Substantial Completion (… MS09C).’ We therefore maintain our entitlement to
recover the additional time and / or cost associated with such acts of prevention.
Notice No 117- Additional Works associated with the Installation of Antennas to Piers 1 to 4 by an Other
Contractor- Request for Engineer's Instruction/ Variation Order
The Employer's Other Contractor (COMBA Telecom) has confirmed that there are no additional
cuttings/openings required and therefore the Contractor should have proceeded to complete any
outstanding works instructed under El 748 and hence has no entitlement to a Variation Order.
For the reasons comprehensively set out in Notice No 0117 and reiterated in our subsequent
letter dated 24 September 2019 (ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014825, “the additional works” we are
expected to undertake to provide purported ‘logistical support’ to COMBA Telecom is grossly in excess
of that originally promulgated in EI No. 748 and constitutes work that is irrefutably “additional” to our
existing scope.
The Contractor is therefore not entitled to any time and cost as a result of this. In
view
of
the
foregoing, we therefore maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 117.
Notice No 98- Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim- Delay Notice No. 0098, Delays to the Time for Completion
of the Works due to Delays to Receipt of Subsidence Works Instructions and Subsidence to Other Areas
of the MTB

The Engineer has on numerous occasions communicated to the Contractor that the Contractor has no
entitlement pursuant to Clause 5 of SAA8 to any additional time and/or cost in relation to subsidence
and therefore we consider that the submitted Notice has no merit. Instruction and information was
relayed to the Contractor as and when these were available. The Contractor is reminded of its delays
with progressing promptly with the remedial works and the investigation works that were instructed
and conveyed to the Contractor and contrary to the Contractor's obligation under SAA8. Our
position
regarding the subsidence works remains as set out in our previous letters and delays notices issued on
the matter, which include without limitation, Notice No. 98 as well as our subsequent Delay Notice No.
160 letter ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/015102 dated 5 December 2019.
Notice No 110- Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17162- Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 Fire Curtain at
Hotel- Changes in Scope: Request for Engineer's Instruction/ VO
The submitted E-Notice does not refer to a change in design and does not constitute a change, but a
discrepancy among the Contract documents (IFC drawings, BP sketches and approved shop drawings.)
The information related to the glass wall lining at lift's elevations has been known in the Contract and
IFC Drawings as listed hereunder:
Our position remains as set out in our Notice No. 110. In short:
The comments annotated on the sketches attached to your response to RFI/0401/17162 (such as those
summarised in Table 1 to Notice No. 110), attempted to vary the existing IFC design and required a valid
EI and VO if you wished for us to proceed with initiating change to the existing design. However, you
failed to issue us the requisite EI / VO.
In view of this we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional
time and/or cost resulting from events detailed within our Notice No. 110.
IFC Drawings A 02 series for Levels L3.0, L3 .1, L3.2 and L3.3 (Drawing Nos. MTC-A-02-TB-L3.0-5.3200.662, MTC-A-02-TB-L3.1-5.32-00.708, MTC-A-02-TB-L3.2-5.32-00.754 and MTCA-02-TB-L3 .3-5.3200.800) refers to A 04 series for Detail Floor Plan.
IFC Drawings A 04 series for Levels L3.0, L3.1, L3.2 and L3.3 (Drawing Nos. MTC-A-04-TBL3.0-5.3200.664, MTC-A-04-TB-L3.1-5.32-00.814, MTC-A-04-TB-L3.2-5.32-00.854 and MTCA-04-TB-L3.3-5.3200.904) refers to Section Detail at Drawing MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.197.
The section at Drawing MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.197 refers to an enlarged detail 11 in the Drawing
MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.337 indicating Glass Wall Lining GLZ-16.
Details for Typical Lift Lobbies at Drawing MTC-A-71-TB-L_. _-_._-00.630 indicates Glass Wall Lining GLZ16. This was confirmed through RFC-532 response issued in Tender Bulletin No. 8 item 26.
The Contractor's Shop Drawings for the Hotel's Architectural General Arrangement Layout -Central
Space Sector 5.178 (Leve ls 3.0 up to 3.2) were also reviewed and approved with Code 2. The Engineer's
comments shown as "Back Painted Glass as per IFC (GLZ-16) as per IFC detail 11 Drawing A07-337" are
to be provided on the lift lobby walls. The signed sketch 401-FE-A-BP56- L31-L33-5.00-GA-S IFC001_R00_180718 cannot be the basis for the omission of the glass wall lining since the drawing's intent
is for the smoke curtain details and not an amended detail for IFC Detail11 Drawing A07-337.
In light of the above, the Contractor has no entitlement to additional time and/or cost and considering
the Contractor's obligations under Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8.
Notice No 121 - No response - Kitchen & Smoke Extract Fan Installation in Hotel Building Level L3.4
Response to RFI/0401/17163 and SDS/0401/M/1375-01

The Contractor's assertions are refuted given that the Contractor has delayed the resolution of the
Design Consultant's provided comments in a timely manner. The Shop Drawings were rejected by the
Design Consultant on the basis of the acoustics concern that the current assembly may have at the Hotel
areas. In order to address the Design Consultant’s concerns and avoid any abortive works as the
installation has been completed, the Engineer and the Employer agreed the following with the
Contractor:
The events and circumstances relating to this issue is comprehensively set out in our Notice No.
121, and for that reason we have no wish to repeat the content here.
We do however maintain that the various acts of prevention on the part of the Employer's Personnel /
Consultants, that required a revised response to RFI/00401/17163 and a re-coding of our Shop Drawing
Submittal No. SDS/0401/M/1375-01 in order to resolve.
As regards your comment that we have not evidenced how this event is impacting completion of
Milestone MS09C, we wish to make clear that while delay analysis fragnets for this event were
impacted into the delay analysis programmes, they were found not to have a critical impact on
completion. That is not to say the event did not delay or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and
disruption at the point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion.
We do however reserve our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the
delaying/disruptive effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found.
We therefore maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and/or costs resulting from events detailed in Notice No. 121.
1. The fans will be tested on site and witnessed by CxA in order to address the Design Consultant's
comments.
2. The preliminary tests were carried out in the presence of CxA and further tests are required for the
vibration and testing on permanent power which are pending the Contractor's action.
3. The Engineer followed up on 20 October 2019 and the Contractor informed that both the permanent
power and the specialist testing agency for the vibration will be arranged as well and this is expected to
be confirmed by the end of October 2019 and testing will be conducted in the first week of November
2019.
4. Depending on the outcome of the test and acceptance by CxA, the approved test pack will be issued
to ADAC in order to confirm compliance with the Contract's requirements.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor's E-Notice has any merit given the delays by
the Contractor in addressing the Design Consultant's comments. Moreover, the respective test is being
delayed as a result of the non-availability of permanent power. The Contractor has not evidenced how
this activity will impact the completion of Milestone MS09C in view of the current Contractor's ongoing
delays to the Project.
Notice No 127 - Overdue Responses to 1288 Shop Drawings as at 1 August 2019 including but not
limited to Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Ceiling, and Road Marking Shop Drawings etc.
[issued vide 442 Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contention and advises that the Contractor is reminded of
their obligations to submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 3.3. f of Section 01 33 00 of
the Specifications otherwise there is no entitlement for any extension to the Time for Completion. The

Contractor has committed to complete all its submissions by Q4 2018 and in accordance with the Rev
11.2 Baseline Programme but unfortunately this was not adhered to.
The principle aspect of Notice No. 127 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the Shop Drawing
Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). In
relation to our Notice No. 127, it is a matter of fact that you took upwards of an additional 211 calendar
days to respond to our Submittals; this is in addition to the contractually stipulated review period(s)
stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the
Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we have any entitlement to
additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner. This also applies irrespective of any alleged commitment on our part to submit all
our submissions by Q4 2018 as well as any alleged failure to adhere to our own submittal targets and
the dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
As regards your comment that our statement that the delay in the review of As-Built Drawings will
“potentially” impact on our ability to achieve Substantial Completion is “unfounded”, we respond as
follows: The cut-off date utilised in Notice No. 127 is 1 August 2019. The period addressed by our Post
SAA8 – TIA No. 2 is from 2 May 2019 to 1 August 2019. Hence it is very likely that the effects of this
event were not felt i.e. not critical at the point in time they were impacted. That is not to say that this
event may subsequently delay and/or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and disruption at the
point in time they were impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We do however reserve
our right to any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the delaying/disruptive
effects of delay resulting from this event are subsequently found..
The Contractor's assertion that the alleged delay to the review of Shop Drawings will potentially have an
impact on their ability to achieve Substantial Completion is unfounded and the Engineer has on
numerous occasions recorded the Contractor's delays to adhere to their own submittals' targets.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contract or has an entitlement to additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 106 - Delays to Automated Tray Return System (ATRS) Testing – Overdue Responses to
Document Submittal Nos. DS/0401/13480 Rev. 02 (Smart View Matrix SAT Protocol) and DS/0401/14184
Rev. 01 (ATRS Performance Test Document)
The Engineer refutes the Contractor's assertion and notes that the actual reasons the Contract or could
not perform the ATRS equipment performance tests was due to the actual site conditions which as of 8
July 2019 were as follows:

The principle aspect of Notice No. 106 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the two Document
Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c).
In relation to our Notice No. 106, it is a matter of fact you took upwards of an additional 35 calendar
days to respond to our Submittals; this is in addition to the contractually stipulated review period(s)
stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the
Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we have any entitlement to
additional time [and/or cost].
You have however sought to rely on other factors and events in order to justify why you consider we
have no entitlement to any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have
claimed entitlement due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any
delay on our part [which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover
the additional time and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract
on your part will apply irrespective of any alleged delay on our part relating to site conditions [which is
denied], associated with the ATRS equipment performance tests.
1. None (0) of the ninety-five (95) ATRS units (including the related PBSS X-Ray machines) had any
permanent power connections to the floor boxes as a result of the lack in the energization progress
from upstream sources. All units were on temporary construction power only.
2. The performance testing relies on stable permanent, uninterrupted power supplies during the testing
of equipment to properly validate performance.
3. Scaffolding interferences exists above the installed equipment from other trades' construction
activities such as civil, mechanical, ceiling and fit out works that were still ongoing.
4. At the time of the Contractor's E-Notice there were three (3) ATRS units that were not physically
installed at L2.0 Premium Departure lanes (Sector 5.50). Installation works were still ongoing at the
Etihad First Class lanes L2.0 (Sector 5.52).
The Engineer via various correspondence has notified the Contractor of the delays that occurred due to
the lack of coordination of the various Subcontractors' works, hindering the
ATRS installations and testing. As the Contractor is aware, both the approved Work Inspection Requests
(WIR) and approved Commissioning Inspection Requests (CIR) are the contractual requirements for
measuring the actual work completeness. The Engineer's inspection records highlight that the
Contractor had not completed the full installations and stand alone testing requirements as per the
approved Inspection Test Plans (ITP's).
In light of the above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 101 - Gatehouse GH49 - Damage to PCA Pit Due to Grouting Works by Others - UpdateFurther Damage to GH49 PCA pits plus Damage to GH1 PCA Pits

The MTA Contractor has refuted the Contractor's assertions regarding the alleged damage to the PCA
Pit. The Contractor's position that the alleged damages would affect the Contractor
obtaining the BCC is rejected. The Contractor has not evidenced this allegation and the Engineer notes
that the Contractor, and due to his own delays, has failed to achieve Milestone MS09B by 30 June 2019,
thus any delays to the BCC are considered the Contractor's delays.
We received an email from you
on December 09, 2019 9:04 AM, stating that the PCA pits at GH49 and GH1 are damaged due to the
grouting works performed by L&T, requesting us to remove the installed equipment from the affected
PCA pits. Specifically your email states:
“Please be informed that PCA pits at Ghs 49 and Gh1 are out of tolerance due permeation grouting
there. We require the Jv to remove the PCA pits 49-1, 49-2 mechanisms along with respective PCA pipes
so as to allow the removal of the pits ,treat the area underneath and reinstate the pits again . Some
adjustment will be also required to the tilted PCA pit 49-3 which may necessitate the removal of the PCA
mechanism and pipes stubs.
Please check on the above and revert back urgently”.
We are perturbed to note that on one hand within your response to your letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA0401-LTR-11092 you have rejected our E-Notice and the delays caused by the damages due to L&T’s
works, but on the other hand your e-mail stated above [Monday, December 09, 2019 9:04 AM] is
essentially an admittance on your part that our works are delayed due to damages indeed caused to the
PCA pits due to L&T’s works.
Therefore it is clearly evident from your responses that the damages have been caused by L&T, but you
are attempting to hold us liable for these damages and the consequent delays. This is totally
unacceptable.
We therefore maintain all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and/or costs resulting from delays due to the activities of the Employer’s Other Contractor.
Notice No 120 -Delays to Cause and Effect Testing and Commissioning due to Delayed Response to NOC
Request to Create Opening within AMC Walls to Level L3.1 to install Fire Smoke Damper Actuators, FSDCS-L3.1-017 and 027 and Failure to Issue an Engineer's Instruction to rectify damage caused by Other
Contractor
The Contractor's allegation regarding the late approval of the requested NOC is refuted and we advise
that the delay is attributable to the Contractor as they did not provide sufficient information to the
Employer's Other Contractor to enable them to approve the requested NOC. The Contractor provided
inaccurate information regarding the numbers, locations and size of openings thus has prevented the
processing of the NOC. This is contrary to the Contractor's obligations under the Contract and Clause
2.11 of SAA8 for facilitating Fitout Contractor's works. We refute your rebuttal of our claim and
maintain our position as set out in Notice No. 120. We also note that your comments are misleading
since our NOC ref: N-441 requests submitted under letter ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/014494 dated 27
June 2019, covers every aspect of the information required to create the opening within the existing
walls. However, you failed to reply in a timely manner. For that reason we forwarded our NOC to the
Employer by e-mail dated 8 July 2019 [10:40am], requesting “urgent approval”. This was also
disregarded.
The approved NOC was eventually issued on 24 July 2019. However, for you to take 24 calendar days to
respond to an urgent matter and at such a late stage of the project, will invariably have a consequential
impact on progress of our Works and will delay us.
Even if there was insufficient information, which is denied, the fact that you took 24 calendar days to
comment and approve our NOC is unacceptable.
We also remind you that our Notice No. 120 informed you of the delays incurred due to damages caused
by the Employer’s Other Contractor, to the previously handed over fire and life safety services within the

AMC Room to L3.1, which required a formal VO / EI to be rectified. We note that Yyou failed to provide
this.
In light of the above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Therefore, we maintain that the resultant delay in approving our NOC Ref: N-441 and
the other factors outlined in our Notice, has the potential to delay and disrupt our Works. Hence, this is
the reason why we issued E-Notice No. 120.
In view of the foregoing, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or costs resulting from various events detailed within our Notice No. 120.
Notice No 132 - Provision of Additional Data Outlets for Existing Flight Information Display Screens to
Check-In Island in Sector 5.228 to Level L2.0 - Engineer's Response to RFI/0401/17254 - Request for
Engineer's Instruction and Variation Order
The Contractor in the submitted E-Notice has requested for an Engineer's Instruction in order to
proceed with the two data outlets. It is the Engineer's position that the Contractor has no entitlement to
a Variation Order given that as indicated in the respective drawing, Flight Information Display Screens
are within the Contractor's scope of works and in order to operate they require data outlets. The
Contractor is referred to its obligations under Clause 2.24 of SAA8.
Our E-Notice No. 132 describes the chronology of the events associated with this matter and
clearly demonstrates that the FIDS data points had been previously removed from our scope of works
following your comments in response to RFI/0401/10778 and related RFEI/0401/0572.
However, it is evidently clear that you subsequently re-introduced the data points as per the modified
sketch attached to your response to RFI/0401/17254. This represents a clear and unequivocal change to
the existing design and a change to our scope of works.
Accordingly, we once again remind you that we are not the designers for this Project, the Employer’s
Design Consultant is. Consequently, we accept no liability or responsibility for any inconsistencies in the
Design; this remains with the Employer’s Design Consultant.
In this regard, we put on record that the Works have been constructed by us based on IFC Drawings
prepared by KPF and issued by you and any change, which clearly this is, entitles us to recover any
associated additional time and / or cost.
Therefore your reliance on Clause 2.24 is entirely without merit and untenable. In view of this, and for
the reasons repeated above, we maintain our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or costs resulting from the event detailed within our Notice No. 132.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 122 - Engineer's Overdue Response to MS/0401/A/1756 and Unreasonable Engineer's
Comments regarding Precast Planters Sealer Application
The Contractor offered the precast planter benchmark for inspection (WIR-17237 Rev.01) and it was
inspected by the Employer, the Engineer and the Design Consultant. To assist the
Contractor with the fabrication of the precast works and the progress of these works, WIR-17237 rev. 01
has been released with Code 2 with a caveat that the Contractor applies the sealer and offers it for
inspection.
Please refer to emails sent enclosed to raise the eE-notices 122 and 172.
This is variation to our contract and most importantly no EI was issued with detailed specification or
product requirements. TCAJV We have raised the RFEI in May 2018 not Nov 2018 ( as wrongly stated by
the Engineeryou)
21st May 2018: An RFEI was sent to AECOM you via letter MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/013035 received by
AECOM 29th May 2018. TCAJV We have clearly requested the type of sealer that needs to be applied.

AECOM replied to the letter but didn’t answer the question of What type of Sealer material that is
required?.
28th ~Oct 2018: TCAJV We sent another letter MTB/../013715 received by AECOM you on 31th Oct 2018
requesting that the Engineer you clarifyies the scope of works…..type of coating/sealer… etc.
We have provided numerous samples (list attached in Notice 122), but it the Engineer took you almost a
year to approve a sample and later a mock-up.
There is no sealer in the TCAJV our contract to be applied on the precast planters (refer to E-notice 122).
Recently, it hass changed to Jotun paint (E-Notice 172)
It is yourthe Engineer’s responsibility to specify the material and send a clear instruction and details of
the material required.
The EngineerYou failed to do so, therefore we disagree with the Engineer your statement that we have
delayed the approval or submittals.
This cannot possibly be construed as a matter falling under SAA8 Clause 2.24. Accordingly, we maintain
all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or cost resulting
from acts of prevention on your part and /or the part of the Employer.
The Request for an Engineer's Instruction (RFEI) No. 0705 has been received by the Contractor on 27
November 2018 and the Material Submittal was made on 17 June 2019. The Contractor has failed to
consider the time constraints for this Material submission. The RFEI confirmed the requirement for a
hydrophobic coating.
The Material Submittal MS-A-0401-1756 Rev. 0 was accepted by the Employer with comments. One of
the comments was "The Contractor to provide mock-up/benchmark for review". On 27 July 2019, the
Contractor sent an invitation to both the Employer and the Engineer for an inspection. There was no
request with the submitted approved Method Statement for the sealer application and no WIR was
submitted. To assist the Contractor, both the Employer and Engineer attended the inspection although
the precast mockup was not in the E2 benchmark due to quality issues as confirmed by the Contractor,
and instead was relocated to Zone 4. The Employer provided his comments and highlighted the main
issues; the surface preparation was unacceptable to receive the sealer application and the approved
samples (with or without sealer) do not match the panels on-site.
Based on the comments provided on 25 August 2019, another inspection was conducted after applying
the sealer on 2 types of surface preparation and again the Contractor failed to achieve the finish. The
application method was not satisfactory to the Employer and it was observed that the Contractor was
not following the manufacturer's recommendations and procedures as stipulated in the approved data
sheet. The delay in submitting the Method Statement impacted the site works and the subsequent
approvals since there is no assurance that the Contractor is applying the sealer as per the
Manufacturer's recommendations.
The Contractor is further referred to its obligations under Clause 2.24 of SAA8.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 123 -Overdue Response to Material Submittal MS/0401/C/0877 Rev. 01 – Key Cabinet &
Keying Control System

The Engineer considers that the Contractor has failed to evidence that they have complied with Clause
1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300 of the Specifications and to substantiate that the document was submitted in
a timely manner. Furthermore, we note that the Master Keying development has been delayed due to

the Contractor (ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09774 dated 04 August 2019).
The principle aspect of
Notice No. 123 was the overdue response to the Material Submittal cited therein (Key Cabinet & Keying
Control System). Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c).
In relation to our Notice No. 123, and the fact the noted submittal was at Rev. 1 (requiring you to
respond within 14 days), it remains a matter of fact that at the time of preparing our Notice, your
response [at that point] was overdue by 28 calendar days. This is in addition to the 14 calendar days
contractually stipulated review period stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet
you elected to ignore what the Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we
have any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost].
You have however sought to rely on other factors in order to justify why you consider we have no
entitlement to any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed
entitlement due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittal only and not for any delay on
our part [which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the
additional time and/or costs resulting from acts of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on
your part will apply irrespective of any alleged delay on our part relating to a request to submit a Keying
Schematic [which is denied], associated with the Key Cabinet & Keying Control System.
In light of the above we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 125 -Overdue Responses to the Contractor's Material Submittals - Architectural, Structural,
Civil, and MEP- as at 29 August 2019
The Engineer considers that the Contractor has failed to evidence that they have complied with Clause
1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300 of the Specifications and to substantiate that the document was submitted in
a timely manner and in accordance with the Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme.
The principle aspect of Notice No. 125 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the Material
Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). In
relation to our Notice No. 125, it is a matter of fact that at the date the notice was prepared, you had
exceeded and continued to exceed the contractually stipulated review period(s) stated in our delay
notice by upwards of 51 calendar days (i.e. you had not yet replied to any of noted submittals). This is
undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore what the Contract states and the facts and allege
that you do not consider that we have any entitlement to additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time

and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice 115-Delays to Installation of Displays due to Other Contractor (Info Booths)

The Engineer notes that the installation of the displays and associated works are considered to be final
installation works and there are no critical work dependencies that would cause critical delays to the
Contractor's works. The installation of the displays and associated work in the areas described in the
Contractor's submitted E-Notice are to be installed towards the very end and therefore are not
considered to be disrupting the Contractor's ongoing activities. Your comment that “the installation of
the displays and associated works are considered to be final installation works and there are no critical
work dependencies that would cause critical delays to the Contractor's works” is refuted. We wish to
make clear that while delay analysis fragnets for this event were impacted into the delay analysis
programmes, they were found not to have a critical impact on completion. That is not to say the event
did not delay or disrupt our works, but the effects of delay and disruption at the point in time they were
impacted were not critical to Substantial Completion. We do however reserve our right to any
entitlement to additional time [and/or cost] if in the event the delaying/disruptive effects of delay
resulting from this event are subsequently found. We therefore maintain our rights and entitlements
under the Contract to recover the additional time and/or costs resulting from events detailed in Notice
No. 115.
In light of the above, we do not consider that the Contractor has an entitlement to any additional time
and/or cost.
Notice No 128 - Overdue Responses to 84 As-Built Drawings as at 1 August 2019- including Electrical,
Plumbing, Security Systems, Local Area Network, and Elevators & Escalators [issued vide 16 As-Built
Submittals]
The Engineer disagrees with the Contractor's contentions and advises that the Contractor is required to
submit the drawings in a timely manner as per Clause 1.3.3 (f) of Section 013300 of the Specifications
and to substantiate that the drawings were submitted in a timely manner and in accordance with the
Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme. The Engineer on numerous occasions has notified and recorded the
Contractor's delays and failure to adhere to their own target dates regarding the submission of the AsBuilt Drawings.
The principle aspect of Notice No. 128 was your ‘lateness’ in responding to the As-Built Drawing
Submittals cited therein. Specifically, Article 1.3.A.3 (a) to (d) of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal
Procedures’ sets out a series of clearly defined processing times by which you are contractually
obligated to review and respond to our Submittals; i.e. 21, 14 and 7 calendar days respectively for
submittals that are at Rev. 00, Rev. 01 and Rev. 02 or higher. Any failure on your part to adhere to these
review times constitutes an unequivocal breach of the Contract or an act of prevention and gives rise to
entitlement ‘to an extension to the Time for Completion … or in relation to a Milestone, completion of
the Works required for that Milestone …’ pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 16.5.1 (c). In
relation to our Notice No. 128, it is a matter of fact that you took upwards of an additional 18 calendar
days to respond to the As-Built Submittals cited therein; this is in addition to the contractually stipulated
review period(s) stated in our delay notice. This is undeniable and irrefutable; yet you elected to ignore

what the Contract states and the facts and allege that you do not consider that we have any entitlement
to additional time [and/or cost].
You have however relied on a purported failure on our part to submit our submittals “in a timely
manner” as per Clause 1.3.3.A.3 (f) of Specification Section 013300 “otherwise there is no entitlement to
any extension to the Time for Completion”. This is refuted. On the basis we have claimed entitlement
due to your unequivocal delayed responses to our submittals only and not for any delay on our part
[which is denied], then all our rights and entitlements under the Contract to recover the additional time
and costs resulting from act(s) of prevention or any material breach of the Contract on your part will
apply irrespective of any alleged culpability on our part [which is denied], to transmit submittals to you
in a timely manner. This also applies irrespective of any alleged failure on our part [which is denied] to
adhere to our own submittals’ targets and the dates of the Rev. 11.2 Baseline Programme.
Notice No 131 - Unreasonable WIR Code 3 Comments Rejecting the Mock-up for XD1 Lighting Fixtures
requesting changes to the Ceiling Roses and Gl Boxes
The Contractor is referred to the Shop Drawing ref. 401-AN-E-02-00-5.26D-LT-SD-001- R03 that was
attached with the benchmark WIR-ELEC-66175 for XD1 fixtures that clearly shows WPBOX (Weather
Proof Box) for the fixtures XD1 (refer to drawing attached to the Engineer's response to this notice
where highlighted in green are the WPBOX).
The WPBOX you are referring to is already provided on
site and used for the homerun circuit terminations located above the GRC ceiling. It is not related to the
XD1 lighting fixture installation. Therefore, it does not have to be shown on the light installation detail
drawing 401-AN-E-07-GE-0.00-LT-SD-110.
The Contractor did not reflect the above WPBOX in the detailed drawing ref 401-AN-E-07-GE-0.00-LTSD-110. The comment provided in the said benchmark WIR-ELEC-66175 is based on the Project
Specification Sections 260500, Clause 1.5.A.3, Section 265600 Clause E.9.a and ADDC's wiring
regulations Clauses 7.1.14, 7.3.12, 7.8.17 and 9.8.1.
The comment provided in the benchmark WIR-ELEC-66175-R00 dated 31.07.2019 has been
discussed with ADAC/CMA through various meetings workshops and the installation (ceiling rose + GI
box) has been eventually accepted as is. After which, benchmark inspection took place and WIR-ELEC66175-R02 dated 02.10.2019 has been given code 2 with the same installation. This means there was an
unnecessary delay of 2 months on your part which eventually led to the approval of the actual
installation of the ceiling rose and GI box. This proves that your comments to the WIR have been
unreasonable as discussed in our E-Notice 131.
The ceiling rose which was approved through MS/0401/E/0123 was submitted for general use within the
whole MTB and this approval does not specifically allow the Contractor to use it for external installations
as it is not complying with the weather requirement s. Accordingly, the Contract or shall use the
approved materials in full compliance with the related authorities and regulations as commented in the
MS/0401/E/0123.
The ceiling rose is approved via MS/0401/E/0123 which is a material submittal for general use in
the MTB. However, shop drawing 401-AN-E-07-GE-0.00-LT-SD-110 shows this ceiling rose specifically
utilized for XD1 light installation in the external area and the same has been approved by the design
consultant.
In October 2016, and in response to the Engineer's comments given for MS/0401/E/03 17-00 - Lighting
Fixtures FOH Type XD1, the Contractor noted the Engineer's comment " We take no exception to the
IP20 rated driver provided it is enclosed/ protected by an IP rated enclosure/protection which is suitable
for the operating environment." The Contractor is therefore aware of the weather proof requirements
for such installations which are expected to be followed in all other related installations/connections as
per the above referred specifications/codes/ drawing. Photos for the installed IP66 driver of XDl was
provided in the Engineer's response to Notice. The Contractor is also referred to its obligations under

Clauses 1.7.4 and 2.24 of SAA8. We have complied with the comment of the engineering on the
material submittal MS/0401/E/0317-00 and in fact enclosed the driver ballast in a weather proof
enclosure as specified in your comments. The same has been demonstrated during the benchmark
inspection and approved via WIR-ELEC-66175-R02 dated 02.10.2019. On the other hand, we note that
the driver ballast is active equipment that is exposed to damages by the outdoor environment whereas
the ceiling rose is a passive device that does not require similar treatment since it is not directly exposed
to damages by the outdoor environment.
In light of the above, the Contractor's E-Notice is considered to be unfounded and has no merit and we
do not consider the Contractor to have an entitlement to any additional time and/or cost.
In view of the foregoing and for the reasons set out in Notice No. 131, we reserve all our rights
under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been
amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time for Completion and any associated costs
arising from the event(s) described therein.
Subject:Engineer’s Response to the TCA JV’s Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events Between 4
September 2018 and 1 May 2019 (TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8)
Dear Sir
We refer to the Engineer’s letter ref: 4 issued in reply to our letter ref: 3, following receipt of the
Engineer’s letter ref: 2, responding to our Consolidated Delay Analysis (TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8) issued
under letter ref: 1, and write as follows:
Irrespective of the Engineer’s failure to respond to TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8 within the 28 days pursuant to
Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.6, and irrespective of the dismissive content of his reply (4) to
our detailed response to his assessment of TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8 (3) [which we are addressing
separately], we note that under the provisions of Sub-Clause 27.1.6, in addition to you requesting any
further particulars, you are also obliged to provide a response on the principles of our claim.
Accordingly, we respectfully request that you provide a response on the principles of our claim [in
accordance with the requirements of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.6], at the earliest.
Yours faithfully,
