Subject:
Wall-to-Wall System

Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (2) in response to our submitted RFVO reference (1) regarding
the subject matter. We hereby provide our response in an effort to resolve this matter at once. Before

responding to the issues raised in your referenced (2) letter, we would like to highlight some of the
relevant Contract conditions.
Responsibility for the Design of the works is identified under Schedule 12 (Specification) of the Contract
and unless it is explicitly identified as a Performance Specification, our view for that portion of the works
is that the design is the Employer’s responsibility.
As mentioned above, the responsibility of the Design and consequently design compliance with the
codes and Local Authority requirements remains solely with the Engineer/Employer. Hence, our
responsibility is to follow the Design and Specifications derived from the Contract Documents
respectively. Thus, with the principles set out in the Contract, during the Tender period we have used
the ISSUED FOR TENDER (IFT) Drawings to prepare and submit our Best And Final Offer (BAFO) on March
2012. As a result, we express our disagreement responding to your comment made in your letter
reference (2) wherein you stated that “the Engineer records that the Contractor’s obligation to comply
with all fire code requirements in areas including emergency exit/egress passageways in unchanged”.
Taking the above into consideration, we hereby further provide detailed comments related to the
foregoing and in response to your letter, as follows:
A. Relevant Facts and Circumstances
Contract information provided before the implementation of Fire direction change by the Engineer
1.
Fire Resistance from Bottom side of the Ceilings
Our Pricing of the Employer's Contract Requirements and in this case the pricing of fire rated ceilings,
during Tender has been based on the limited information provided by the Employer, at the time of
submission. It is a factual and undisputed fact that there is no Specification available for 2hr fire rated
ceilings in the Contract Documents. The IFT drawings during tender and subsequently the IFC Drawings
(Attachment 7) only defined the properties of the fire rated gypsum boards (i.e. GYB-04 and/or GYB-01).
Under Section 092900 of the Specification, GYB-04 is specified as a “Fire-resistant gypsum board” and
GYB-01 is regular non-fire rated gypsum board. It is noted that, the Drawings and Specifications do not
provide any additional information in regards to the type of system for fire rated ceilings (Attachment
10).
The Contract Fire Strategy report shows all the fire scenarios from bottom side of the ceiling surface
(Please refer to Attachment 3). Our interpretation, after thorough investigation, is that of a suspended
ceiling system with 2 layers gypsum board that provides 2 hrs fire rating and is fire resistant from
bottom. Changing the fire requirements into multiple ignitions (from top and bottom) required changing
of suspension into fire rated LID type secondary steel to provide 2hrs fire rating, which at a later stage
was implemented in various areas as shown in our RFVO-/0401-1325-SC/039/B Attachment 11.
Moreover, in any circumstance that the single ignition comes from above the ceiling and if we take into
consideration the IFT/IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D which shows GYB-04 and
considering the fact that framings are exposed, it is evident that the suspension will not be able to hold
a 2 hour fire as specified.
Notwithstanding the above, we have followed the provisions of the Contract and pursuant to Clause 9.6
[Priority of Documents] and taking into consideration the fact that the Specification(s) are established at
a higher order of precedence than Drawings and since the Drawings did not provide enough

information, we based our pricing of the fire rated ceilings on GYB-04 gypsum board as per the
Specification using a GWB hanging system (Attachment 9) which provides 2hrs Fire resistance from
bottom, thus meeting the Contract Requirements. The details of the GWB system are shown on
Attachment 9 (GWB is a typical 2 hour fire rated ceiling from Gypsemna product range).
We also used the Fire Strategy Report (Attachment 3) to investigate all types of fire rated ceiling
systems, which could be implemented. You are well aware that the Fire Strategy Report is the basis of
the Employer's design and it has no use to us until it is developed into designs and constructible IFC
documents capable of being implemented for the execution of the Works. Nevertheless, in this case the
Fire Strategy Report shows all fire scenario analysis from bottom side of the ceilings.
Accordingly, as per the above information and after investigating all possibilities provided in the
Contract Documents, on March 2012 we submitted our BAFO including a 2hrs GWB Fire Rated Hanging
System, also specified in the Bill of Quantities (BoQ) Bill No.3 Section J Item E (Attachment 4) which
provides 2hrs Fire resistance from bottom as outlined in the Fire Strategy Report. Please refer to
Attachment 9 wherein Specifications and information from the manufacturer are provided, for the GWB
fire rated ceiling accordingly. In addition to this, your attention is also drawn on the said section of the
BoQ which not only clearly specifies the GWB system but also specifies that the properties of the
Gypsum boards shall be GYB-01 non-fire rated, instead of GYB-04.
2.
Changing Fire direction by the Engineer
The Tender Bulletins are expressly incorporated into the Contract to clarify and resolve discrepancies in
the Scope of Works. This was agreed between the parties to set limits on the physical Scope of Works
and to establish accountability for further changes thereto.
Prior to the submission of BAFO (March 2012), under Query no. RFC-701 (Attachment 6) of the Tender
Queries 12 Tender Bulletins 01 to 18, we requested clarification regarding the Fire rating of the egress
passageways. The Engineer responded that the “fire rated ceiling areas are defined in G-04 set” wherein
there is no such information available in G-04 drawings and that GYB-01 (regular non-fire rated gypsum
board) ceiling shall be used in egress passageways. The Engineer also stated that “rated ceilings at
egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings to be issued at a later date)”. Accordingly, even though the
Engineer specified a non-fire rated ceiling (i.e. GYB-01), as an experienced Contractor we proceeded
with due diligence investigating all Contract Documents, all provided information, various
materials/systems in the market and included in our Contract pricing GYB-04 fire rated gypsum board
combined with GWB system.
After the submission of BAFO, on May 2012 the Engineer issued the revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A
62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D_ dated 24 May 2012 inclusive of the detail (Detail No 8) for the required
properties of the Fire Rated Ceiling in the egress passageways. The system indicated GYB-04 which was
in contradiction to the previous comments made by the Engineer on the Tender Bulletins, wherein you
specified GYB-01.
In addition to the above, please be informed that there is also a contradiction on the IFC drawings,
wherein IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 00 shows GYB-04 (fire resistant gypsum board)
but the legend of the current IFC ceiling plans (A-42 series) still shows the ceilings as GYB-01 which is a
regular non-fired gypsum board.

All of the above referenced Engineer actions constitute a Variation. However, our intention is not to
claim any additional amounts for the contradiction or discrepancies, but only for the change of system.
Therefore, you are requested to urgently re-consider your comments forthwith and/or to further
elaborate upon the basis of the requested changes.
Furthermore, due to the fact that the above changes have been instructed by you and are a requirement
of the Project, you are requested pursuant to Clause 20.1.4 (b) to issue revised Drawings and/or
Specification and an Engineer's Variation Order pursuant to Clause 11.3.3 [Instructions of the Engineer]
and 20.1.1 (a) [Right to Vary], respectively.
3.
New Requirements introduced by the Engineer
Pursuant to Clause 12.14 (h) [Health and Safety Procedures] “the Contractor shall comply with all
recommendations regarding fire protection made by Civil Defence Fire Services and any insurers
providing insurance in respect of the Works, including regulation…”. Please note that the 2hr fire rated
ceilings (Detail no.8 in Drawing MTC_A-62 _B_L_ _ _ _ 00.640(00)), although there is no cross reference
to this section in the IFC ceiling drawings, we record that the referred section cannot be considered a
fire rated ceiling system from both sides due to the fact that it has exposed framing structure in the
ceiling void which does not meet the Civil Defence Requirements. Furthermore, UAE Fire & Life Safety
Code of Practice item 35.2, does not permit a 'hanging system' for such a fire rated ceiling from top.
In light of the above, it is a factual and undisputed fact that the change of system, which is a Variation to
the Contract, introduced by the Engineer after agreeing on the Contract Price will not be approved by
any authority in the UAE.
Moreover, taking into consideration the above and the referred IFC drawing MTC-A-62-TB-L_-_-_-00640(00), we are of the opinion that the changes introduced by you will not be approved due to the
following reasons:
i.
No certification available for a horizontal shaft wall system to be used as a rated ceiling system;
ii.
This type of system is not available from any manufacturer in UAE;
iii.
The IFC configuration shows a hanging system with the fire direction from the bottom which is
not valid for fire direction from the top;
iv.
Refer to Attachment 9 – GYB-04 horizontal shaft wall ceiling system is shown in IFC drawings.
This system is from USG and listed in their brochure. USG website mentions that this system is not UL
tested. This system considers the fire direction from the corridor side and there are limitations to the
width of the system.
4.
Engineer’s Acceptance of RFVO for fire rated top and bottom Gypsum LID system
Please note that RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 signed and agreed on 23 January 2018 is regarding
the additional gypsum LID system, which is a system incorporating top and bottom fire rated gypsum
boards, and is added in various areas to comply with the fire protection requirements. Please be
reminded that the mentioned system has been accepted in principle as a Variation Order and it is priced
using new unit rates.
In view of the above, in principle you have accepted the fact that a new fire rated system, other than the
one priced in our Contract BoQ, has been incorporated in the project including top and bottom fire
rating.
Therefore, as per our comments described in this letter and the below facts:

i.
Our Contract pricing for the egress passageways was based on GWB bottom fire rated GYB-04
system;
ii.
The new system introduced by you cannot be used in the project due to the reasons specified in
item 3 above; and
iii.
A new system has been accepted by you in principle as a Variation Order (i.e. LID) which
incorporates top and bottom fire rating.
You are hereby requested to make a determination to issue a Variation Order, in accordance with your
obligations under Conditions of Contract clause 11.4.1, which set out “…the Engineer shall make a fair
determination strictly in accordance with these Conditions, taking due regard of all relevant
circumstances but paying particular regard to the rights and obligations of the Parties as set out in the
Contract.”. However, as per your letter reference (2) you indicated that the changes described herein,
do not constitute a Variation. Please be advised that the comments forming the basis of this action are
not justified and are contrary to the Design and configuration of the Fire Rating System as set out in the
Contract and discussed herein.
B. Additional Information in regards to History of Events
On 14th January 2016, we raised an RFI reference RFI/0401/10736 (Attachment 5) to the Engineer, in
which we requested Clarification regarding the following points:
•
There isn’t any fire-rating test and certification available for the sloped fire rated ceiling GYB-04,
and requested the Engineer advise how to proceed with these locations; and
•
Some areas in IFC drawings are only mentioned as 2 hour fire-rated ceiling without any ceiling
type/system specified and requested the Engineer to specify the ceiling type.
On 2nd February 2016, the Contractor received the Engineer’s reply to the RFI-10736, in which the
Engineer stated that the fire rated sloped ceiling is required to be fire resistance from both sides (top
and bottom) & the ceiling type for the 2 hour fire-rated ceiling without tag type is updated as GYB-04.
C. Basis for Entitlement to a Variation
The Employer through its Engineer and/or Consultants should have provided a responsible and
compliant design including undertaking the liability for Fire Rated Ceiling. Please note that all
Specifications, Drawings and other Contract Documents should have been provided prior to our
submission of BAFO and subsequently the day of Contract signing, to set out all various types of
Materials and Systems. Therefore, we pursue our Contractual rights and we inform you that the
combined selection of Materials, Systems, Products and the design shall not fall onto the Contractor but
remains an Employer’s responsibility.
It is noted that you were obliged to incorporate the Systems referred herein, within the overall design
and to deliver in a timely manner "Issued for Tender/Construction" documents strictly according to your
intents.
Accordingly, the Engineer’s requirement to introduce a new system (after the BAFO submission and
subsequently after the Contract Signing) changing the fire-resistance direction from bottom (as clearly
illustrated during the tender stage) to become fire resistant from top and/or from both sides is a
variation to the Contractor’s Scope of works pursuant to Clauses under 20 [Variations and Adjustments].
The said changes have resulted in an increased number of layers (from 2 to 5 layers) in order to achieve
this requirement.
Furthermore, the Supporting/Hanging system is also impacted due to the following reasons:

As a result of the change in the fire direction (source of ignition from ceiling void side instead of the
corridor side) and as the code, UAE Fire & Life Safety Code of Practice item 35.2, does not permit a
'hanging system' for such rated ceiling, the Contractor had to develop a secondary steel framing system
that would support the fire rated ceilings as referred in drawing MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D, ceiling
detail No 8, which cannot be certified as a 2hr fire rated ceiling from top and/or both side. Accordingly,
concealed secondary steel beams were introduced to transfer the ceiling loads to the adjoining
blockwork. For locations where the fire rated ceiling interfaced with fire rated drywall partitions,
concealed secondary steel posts were designed to transfer the beam loads to the floor slab. This beampost secondary steel design has been validated through calculations for various spans of the corridors.
From a discrepancy/inconsistency between Contracts documents point of view, Drawings and comments
that contradict each other and do not conform to the Specifications, require the Engineer to resolve the
discrepancies/inconsistencies between the Drawings and Specification. A resolution which does not
conform to the order of precedence of the Contract documents and includes contradictions constitutes
a Variation.
D. Conclusion
The failure of the Employer during the pre-contract period is noted, in which the Employer was
purportedly engaged with the design Consultant/Engineer to adopt the fire protection requirements and
incorporate all necessary changes to issue IFT Drawings. This prompted the Contractor to seek visibility
into the Design and the fire requirements seeking visibility for the matter described herein. As a result,
your failure to provide sufficient information resulted in the changes discussed in this letter.
Pursuant to Clause 12.1.6 (k) [The Contractor’s General Obligations], be advised that during Tender, we
had exercised best practice in reviewing all Drawings, Design and Specifications set out in the Contract.
Nevertheless, your failure to provide all information as described herein is a Design Error which could
not be reasonably identified by an Experienced Contractor.
Moreover, pursuant to Clause 12.1.6 (c) “The works shall be constructed in accordance with Schedule 12
(Specification)”, Please note that, to our best understanding we have achieved all requirement provided
under the Contract.
Consequently, the Engineer’s requirement to change the fire-resistance direction from bottom, to
become fire resistance from top and/or both sides is a Variation to the Contractor’s Scope of works, and
the implementation of this requirement is a direct resultant on the ceiling itself as following:
•
Necessitate increasing number of layers from 2 layers up to 5 layers in order to achieve such
requirement.
•
Using fire proofed secondary steel system to support the GYB-04 ceiling type in order to achieve
the required fire resistance from top and/or both sides of the ceiling as instructed by the Engineer
through its reply to the RFI-10736 & RFI-12974
We hereby provide a notice of claim pursuant to Clause 27.1 [Contractor’s Claims] for the adjustment of
the Contract Price. Failing to undertake the Engineer’s duties as set out in the Contract has delayed the
progress of the Works and will continue to do so thus resulting in delays to the Time for Completion and
an increase to the Contract Price. Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to Clause 9.10.3 [Drawings
or Instruction] that we intend to claim for an extension of the Time for Completion and the additional
Cost implications.

We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
as a Variation by means of a formal Variation Order to avoid further delays and additional costs arising
as a result of any (if any) abortive works and unnecessary time required to seek further clarifications or
the confirmations mandated by Conditions of Contract Clauses 20.1.4, 20.1.5 and 20.3.1 [Variations and
Adjustments].
To conclude, we request you to consider the facts and circumstances as well as the rights and
obligations of the Parties under the Contract for the purpose of making a fair determination strictly in
accordance with Clause 11.4 [Determinations].
In any event, our response above has been made in the spirit of cooperation and is made without
prejudice to our rights under the Contract and at Law.
Yours faithfully,
