Dear Sir,

As sent through e-mail dated July 14, 2014 wherein we conveyed our plan to work 7 days to catch-up
the CMP for TBM 1 and TBM 2 and create additional float for TBM 2, as following:

1.
Existing crews of TBM 1 + 2 will be arranged to work alternate Fridays starting from Friday 24
July until the 3rd week of August 2015.

2.
TBM 3 is expected to break through at Joaan Station during the 3rd week of August 2015 .The
transfer of the TBM through the station is planned to take 3 weeks. During this period existing crews of
TBM 1+2 will continue to work according to adjusted shift patterns,which include working alternate
Fridays, and the TBM 3 operators, erector operators, ring builders and other necessary crews will be
made available to work the alternate Friday shift that the TBM 1 and 2 crews well not be working. The
arrangement will ensure that the 7 days productions can be maintained until mid-September 2015.

3.
TBM 4 is planned to reach Joaan Station approximately 3 weeks after TBM 3, this should
coincide with the resumption of excavation activities of TBM 3. A similar arrangement will then be made
with the TBM 4 crews for the next 3 weeks, until the beginning of October 2015, when TBM 4 excavation
operations are expected to resume.

4.
By the beginning of October 2015, the recruited additional staff are expected to be on site and
will be inducted to provide TBMs 1 + 2 with sufficient manpower to operate a 7 days working production
schedule.

As informed through the e-mail, this is the most expedient and practical approach under the
circumstances and through this we will be recovering the CMP and even creating an additional two
weeks float in TBM 2 which is on critical path. We invite reference to various meetings/ workshops held
for agreeing re-baseline schedule in this regard.

As a follow-up of the matter, we inform you that TBM 1 and TBM did mining on 24th July 2015 and 7th
August
2015 as a conformance to above arrangements.

Further to above arrangements , we are also exploring possibilities to create infrastructure to feed
segment rings from Qatar National Museum in order to reduce cycle times for MSV movement which in
turn will accelerate the remaining program. As soon as we are able to make a robust plan in a manner
that station activities are not adversely hampered, we will submit details for your reference.

We hope this plan will be acceptable and henceforth Engineer's Assistance will take re-baseline as
agreed upon for monitoring.

Yours faithfully,
