Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0182
Delays to numerous Acceptance Test Procedures (ATP) and Commissioning Inspection Requests (CIR) Electrical, HVAC, Plumbing, Fire Fighting, BMS etc
Dear Sirs,

Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern unreasonable delays on the part of CxA (the Employer’s
Commissioning Consultant), to review, confirm and approve as necessary, substantial numbers of
submitted ATPs and CIRs pertaining to numerous items of Electrical and Mechanical equipment.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
impacting on completion of testing and commissioning. This will invariably impact on our ability to
achieve Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write to notify you of appreciable concerns we have in relation to the protracted amount of time the
Employer’s Commissioning Consultant (CxA) is taking to review our testing and commissioning
documents, primarily numerous Acceptance Test Procedures (ATP) and Commissioning Inspection
Requests (CIR), pertaining to various Electrical, HVAC, Plumbing, Fire Fighting and BMS equipment.
As at Week 49 (i.e. 3 December 2019), we note there are 2,088 nos. of ATPs and CIRs currently in the
possession of CxA, many of which have been in their possession for over two weeks. To illustrate this,
we herewith provide the following status reports showing (the delays to CxA’s review of (1) our
Mechanical ATPs and CIRs (refer to Figure 2); and (2) our Electrical ATPs and CIRs (refer to Figure 2).
Figure 1 - Mechanical ATPs and CIRs in CxA’s possession
as at Week 49 (3 December 2019)
Figure 2 - Electrical ATPs and CIRs in CxA’s possession
as at Week 49 (3 December 2019)
The information recorded in Figure 1 and Figure 2, in terms of the overall numbers of Electrical and
Mechanical ATPs and CIRs currently in the possession of CxA, is summarised in Table 1 below:
Table 1
Description
ATP
CIR
Totals
Electrical (LV, ELV)
441
960
1,401
Mechanical (HVAC, Plumping, Fire Fighting, BMS)
525
162
687
TOTAL: 966
1,122 2,088
This shows that 2,088 nos. of ATPs and CIRs are still with CxA, which at this stage of the Project is
unacceptable and notwithstanding our observation that CxA do not have sufficient resources to review
them, but will have major ramifications on our ability to complete testing and commissioning.
What is particularly disconcerting is that not only have the review of our T&C documents been ongoing
for a period of 1, 2 or more weeks, but the number of pending ATPs and WIRs appear to be increasing
on a regular basis. This is a matter that is otherwise wholly avoidable. Therefore given the dependency

that our testing and commissioning has on CxA’s review of the ATPs and CIRs, we urge you to take
immediate and appropriate action as necessary including the involvement of the Employer, to insist that
CxA increase its resources and immediately clears the backlog of impending reviews.
Meanwhile, the various delays and acts of prevention outlined herein, is delaying and disrupting the
completion of our testing and commissioning. This will invariably knock on and impact our ability to
achieve Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
