Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0220
Damage to our installed Public Address and Voice Evacuation (PAVE) System at the CP Etihad Lounge as
well as Various Retail Units caused by the Employer’s Fit-Out Contractor (DEPA) – Request for Engineer’s
Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The various events identified in Annex A hereto records delays attributable to damage caused by the
Employer’s Other Contractor (DEPA) to our previously installed PAVE works, which requires rectification
and as such requires an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We are appreciably concerned about damage that has been caused to our previously installed Public
Address and Voice Evacuation (PAVE) System (i.e. loud speakers, noise sensors, Loop Isolating Modules)
to the CP Etihad Lounge as well as to various Retail Units. Unfortunately despite the PAVE system
having been installed, inspected, and handed over by us via the Work Inspection Requests (WIR)
process, this has subsequently been damaged as shown in Figure 1 [Etihad Lounge] and Figure 2 below
[various Retail Units] to Level L2.0. This is directly attributable to the Employer’s Fit-out Contractor
(DEPA).
Figure 1 – Damage in Etihad Lounge

Figure 2 – Damage in Various Retails Units

Retail Unit 2024: PAVA Circuit No. 10.15-L2.0-110
093-3

Retail Unit 2064: PAVA Circuit No. 10.21-L2.0-

Retail Unit 2064: PAVA Circuit No. 10.21-L2.0-093-5
100

Retail Unit 2643: PAVA Circuit No. 10.16-L2.0-

Retail Unit 2643: PAVA Circuit No. 10.16-L2.0-100

Please note that after we completed the installation, inspection, handover and prior to the Testing and
Commissioning (T&C) of the PAVE System, DEPA commenced with the Employer’s Fit-out works at
several Tenant areas to the CP Etihad Lounge. Evidently, despite our numerous requests and reminders,
DEPA neglected the previously agreed and approved procedures identified in the method statement
regarding any modifications to the Extra Low Voltage (ELV) system, and proceeded to temporarily
remove our previously installed speakers, noise sensors and LIMs at the Tenant areas to the CP Etihad
Lounge.
Subsequent to the removal by DEPA of the aforementioned PAVE system and after the completion of
the respective Tenants’ works, we now find that the PAVE equipment has been improperly reinstalled /
refitted by DEPA. Consequently, due to DEPA’s poor workmanship and flagrant disregard of our Works,
this has resulted in damage and incorrect re-installation of the PAVE systems (i.e. speakers, noise
sensors and LIMs) as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2 above as well as shown in Figure 3 below.
Additionally, along with the damage caused to the equipment and the incorrect re-fitting / reinstallation of speakers (Figure 3 refers), DEPA’s poor workmanship also caused numerous loose
connections (open circuits) encountered along the loop and incorrect terminations (short circuits), in the
manner shown in Figure 1 and 2 above.
Figure 3
In view of the foregoing and due to the current state of the PAVE System, we have been and continue to
be prevented from completing the Testing and Commissioning of the PBA Circuit Nos: 10.13-L2.0115/116, 10.13-L3.0-87/88, and 10.13-L3.0-12/13 which would be used at the Etihad Lounge, as well as
preventing completion of the Testing and Commissioning to the Retail Unit circuits identified in Figure 2.
As a consequence of which, our progress has been delayed and disrupted to the Etihad Lounge given
that our resources had to be diverted in order to troubleshoot the matter (1 day) as well as undertake
some initial rectification works (2-3 days), which could have been avoidable provided the correct
procedures were respected. Note that similar levels of disruption have been encountered to date in the
Retail Units.
We wish to put on record that the foregoing events are not of our doing or responsibility, and any
rectification / remedial works necessarily required at this stage, will invariably delay us. These acts of
prevention were entirely avoidable and as a result they are both delaying and disrupting our progress.
In order for us to complete the rectification works to the damaged works noted above, we will require a
Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI) to enable us to do so and ensure we are appropriately
reimbursed – both for the additional time, as well as the additional costs involved. In this regard, SAA8
laid down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue us the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
Lastly, we urge you to take whatever action is necessary on your part to prevent any further occurrence
of damage being caused to our previously handed-over Works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
Yours faithfully,
