Subject Re: Re: Delay Notice - Fabrication and Release of Front Facade Steelwork to Other
Dear Sir,
We write further to our referenced correspondence (1) above, in which we notified you of your ongoing
delays to the erection and release of the Front Facade steel work to other trades. You have challenged
this in your correspondence referenced (2) above and attempted to present a number of excuses to
which we respond further to as follows.

We record that you have structured your reply to furnish excuses to the delay in erecting the Front
Facade while the notice were clearly stating;
"P1N-P1S-P2N-P2S-P4N-P4S-P3 Partially Released with various comments from Facade Subcontractor.
Removal of scaffolding from level 0 to level 2 is ongoing at slow rate of progress"
Clearly, the notice were intended to warn you of the incomplete nature of your works and the slow rate
to which the handover process is being carried out, instead you decided to respond by bring about the
excuses for the erection of the works. Notwithstanding your rational for evading responding to the exact
concerns relayed in our notice, we offer the following response to your excuses while upholding our
notice in its entirety.
Your argument on the background to our notice
You have stated that, our notice were based on a document under heading "Erection and release of
Retail Cabin Steelwork'' [sic], which is incorrect as the notice were served to you under the heading
"Front Facade" and not "Retail Cabin" !
Your argument on the basis behind the "Must Complete Dates" contained in our notice
You identified that, you were "unaware" of the method that we have adopted to arrive at the "must
complete" dates. Although, it is evident, we further clarify that, we used the same durations planned in
your approved Rev 6 Program and added this duration to the date you actually started the works on site,
knowing that there were no further delays to that area afterwards.
EOT 7 Dates claimed to be the "excusable" date's to which you allege entitlement towards
You have made reference to your EOT7 submission, in which you have shown impacted installation
completion dates of 13th Nov 2016 and 23'd Nov 2016 for handing over to others, we consider these
dates to be incorrect and unsubstantiated due to the following reasons derived from your own
submitted claim: A) Your analysis includes driving activities to the erection of the Facade elements "
DBUCP40SDOSFA0102 Erection of FA-01-02, DBUCP40SDOSFA0105-Erection of FA-01-05, DBUCP40SDOSFA0103-Erection of FA01- 03 and , DBUCP40SDOSFA0106 Erection of FA-01-04" for being driven by the delivery to site and
hence fabrication activities with no excuse or substantiation given in the same EOT claim as to why did
these delivery or fabrication activities took longer to complete than the planned durations, which
further solidifies our notice notion to "Delays to the Fabrication .. ". We note that no delay events were
shown on the critical path to affect the fabrication process once started.
B) The EOT program also shows a second-tier delay activity under erection activities mentioned in point
A above, attribute delays to the erection of front facade elements to an activity named "DB-60
Abstrations
due to JV Crawler crane (To temporary towers to commence Front Facade)" [sic] this activity were
introduced by your selves as a delaying event with a duration of eighteen (18) Days and is shown to
stretch between 19th June 2016 and to be continuing to effect the works up until 20th October 2016 for
the EOT7 period cut off 30th September 2016 window. This is completely an inaccurate activity and if
we are to take your alleged facade completion date of September 2016 (as mentioned by in the same
letter L01621) into account then this activity should not have any of the effects purported in your
analysis.
C) Your approved baseline program and your claim program both allow for 1 (one) week [7 days]
between the completion of the installation of the facade elements and the handover to other trades, if
we are to take into consideration your own assertion that you have completed the front facade works
by September 2016 then you should have had completed the handover by early October at most which
obviously were unachieved by you. EOT7 Claim! Furnishes no excuse, and no substantiation to why did it
took more than 1 week for you to hand over to others.

This is evidence to the reason we sighted "Delays in Handing Over" in our notice (Ref 001362), which
you seem to object to without any plain consideration to the information you relayed to us in your own
claims.
D) The analysis provided inaccurate as-built progress despite the use of accurate as-built data being an
imperative requirement to the application of correct Time impact Analysis. It is clear that the program
used by you to demonstrate your EOT claim does not reflect the accurate as-built status. (e.g. the
alleged completion of facade by September 2016)
E) Your analysis also includes the suspension of works due to the regrettable accident, involving one of
CSCEC's subcontractor's, which happened onsite on the 14th May 201§; to which works were suspended
pending your issuance of the formal investigation report of this incident which was issued to us on 3151
May 2016 through your letter CSC_TCAJV/MTB/NA/L01413, the works remained suspended till the date
you provided this report, another regrettable incident occurred on 22"d May 2016 and equally the
works were suspended until the 28th May 2016 (the date of which reports were compiled by the
correspondent party) and thus this event partially overlaps with the 14th May 2016 incident but it
occurred after it and it was resolved before it, rendering the 14th May 2016 incident as the lead event.
Despite the lead event occurring in May 2016, your programme shows the impact of this event as a
driving event -not a suspension event that ends in 17th Dec 2016 (Activity KGND01ALL2410), which is
"post the alleged impacted handover date!", we note that you have linked this event to the end of the
already wrong impacted installation events of the facade FA members to create an even more
exaggerated delaying effect. Not only are the delaying events exaggerated and the impact shown in the
wrong manner! Either way; We ascertain that any impact as a result of this event/incident is your
liability and risk and does not entitle you to an extension of time.
F) Your EOT 7 also includes a delay effect due the suspension of works due inclement weather in the
nine days between 6th March 2016 till 15th March 2016; however it is shown in your ana lysis as a
driving event that affected the facade structure between 23'd November 2016 unt il 5th Dec 2016
(Activity KGND01ALL2320) which is a date after the "impacted handover date!". We note that you have
linked this event to the end of the already inflated installation events. You have also failed to adhere to
the impact period as notified by you via your transmittals CSC TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01314 (Dated 141h
March 2016) and detailed via transmittal esc TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01323 (Dated 22"d March 2016). You have
also failed to allocate the exact affected element of the works and as such, as it stands in its current
form the method and dates which you elected to impact the inclement weather incident are both
unacceptable.
Excuses attributed to link bridges issues and RFI 401-12046, 12097
In your response you to cross-attribute the delays experienced in the finalization of the link bridges
location as an excuse to the facade work fabrication and handover. We ascertain that the impact of
these delays where limited to the strict locations of those bridges and where never a determinate factor
as to the fabrication nor the installation of the entire facade works and as such we can't accept such a
broad impact. Your EOT7 lists a few of Link-Bridge related
RFI without any realistic impact on the facade and your narratives lack any mention or substantiation to
the same.
You have also referenced the belated response to RFI-401-12046 and 12097 as causation to the delays in
the façade elements. We examined the aforementioned RFI's and their purposes were related to your
own operational proposals and not in a form of a change imposed by the Employer/Engineer, for
instance RFI 12046 proposes a different method to erect beams and RFI 12097 seeks to alter material's.
There is no ground to attribute delays towards these RFI, and the onus to prove entitlement - if anyremains with you.
Excuses attributed to belated instruction related to RFI/0401/1190

We examined the aforementioned RFI's and we found that it is not related to your works or your scope
of works, or the subject of this notice or correspondence.
Your alleged status of handover of the facade to M/S Jangho (Facade subcontractor)
You have included a table to which you allege that you have handed over the facade grid lines as
following In addition to the unambiguous rational as to the delays between the alleged erection
completion and release dates, we reiterate that the works you have passed to the facade subcontractor
were neither in an accurate nor in a complete state, which would not constitute a "Handover" in the
sense that the subcontractor could not commence his works as prescribed, this is very evident from the
numerous documented correspondences -which you are fully aware of, and nor recently made aware of
as you contend- that details serious issues in the quality, alignment and other concerns in the "handed
over" works (We attach a sample of these correspondences in Attachment 1)
Statements on the behaviour of the Structural Steel and reference to unrelated documents
In your response to the issue raised on concerns/ comment made by the facade subcontractor, you
stated "Albeit the behaviour of structural steel after removal of temporary was not envisaged properly
by the engineer, in addition that these are within our responsibility and obligations*"verbatim, and then
you make a reference to a transaction (CSC_TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01194].
Despite such blatant statements to which you blame design flaws and the Engineer for the behaviour of
the erected structural steel we would emphasise that material compliance and erection tolerances are
within your scope of works, and if you are genuinely believe that the issues encountered by the facade
contractor can be attributed to the engineer's scope, we urge you to submit a detailed elaboration on
this case in a form of a report that would substantiate the contentions you made above, until the
provision of this substantiate you remain liable for these issues. With regards to the references you
made to your letter CSC_TCAJV/MTB/JG/L01194, titled "Subcontract payment Certificate No. 26" which
is unrelated to the statement or to the content of these correspondences!
Excuses drawn to FRI's TD-1950 and 1947 and Best Can Do Schedule
We couldn't correlate between the referenced RFI's and the issues raised in our correspondences.
As for the reference made to the best can do program, we find that it was issued post the notice date
and hence it can't be used as a reply to the argument, in addition to this you have also failed to follow
your own program and to date we are still facing issues related to corner facades, tension rods etc., and
other numerous outstanding issues
You also make reference to the non-receipt of payment for additional costs you allege are due to you. In
this regard, we remind you that, we have instructed you on numerous occasions through official
correspondences to comply with the Subcontract Clauses and to provide timely monthly-progress
records and to maintain detailed records of claims which includes full supporting (and cross referenced)
particulars of the basis of any claim you may raise, be it a request for an extension of the Subcontract
Time for Completion, reimbursement of additional Cost and or adjustment to the Subcontract Price in
order to substantiate any entitlement you may have to an extension of the Time for Completion and/or
additional cost.
We would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the lack of the required substantiation
from you (to date), we were able to obtain an on-account payment from the Employer against your
alleged additional costs and this payment has already been made to you. It is important to note that this
payment was no more than an on account payment. and you are required by contract to provide a fully
comprehensive cause and effect (and cross
referenced) impact program illustrating any concurrency, mitigation in addition to providing full
substantiation for the payment received on account, and any future payments in full accordance with
the provisions of your subcontract. Until such time where you comply with these requirements the
claimed costs final settlement remains to be determined.

In conclusion, we ascertain that your reply failed to assess, mitigate or respond to any of the concerns
we raised through our notice and you are reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/ or expenses
incurred by us and/or other Sub-contractors as a result of your failure to complete your Hotel/Office
Steelwork shall be solely your responsibility pursuant to your subcontract, in particular Clauses 12.12.4
and 16.6.1.
Yours faithfully,
