Dear Sir,
With reference to the above, M/s. Cloisall confirm receipt of M/s. TCAJV's letter referenced above and
take cognizance of its content and reply as follows.
M/s. Cloisall refer to receipt of Variation Order No. 16, received on the 191
h March 2017, issued for the
supply and installation of 173no lozenges, to be executed subsequent to the benchmark approval at
Central Processor L 0.0. M/s. TCAJV state in its letter that M/s. Cloisall has "failed" to proceed with
the subject works on site and activities on site are continuing to worsen. The aforementioned statement
are unfounded and refuted and M/s. Cloisall herewith request the JV to provide substantiation to
validate such statement as listed below.
Key dates and the agreed Program of works
Approval of Benchmark
Variation Orders to the Benchmark
MEP (ANEL) co-ordination issues
Notifications of delays issued to Cloisall
The execution of the works are clearly defined/stated in the instruction as having to be executed
"subsequent to the benchmark approval" which, to date are still Code 3 status, due to no fault of ours.
M/s. Cloisall refer M/s. TCAJV to take cognizance of the following events which, in our opinion has
precluded us from obtaining both benchmark approval nor be able to commence with t he full
installation on site.
Changes to benchmark hanger pipe spine/ribs which changed the CHS 42 .4 x 3.56mm sections

to CHS 60.3 x S.Smm
Initial hanger system was proposed as a 3 set system which had to change to a 5 set hanging
system.. CL0/0401/MTB- CEILING/CONT/11522/18- Page 2 of 3
Request by KPF for plastic caps not initially part of the design requirements for the works.
The aluminium frame for the benchmark changed from the specified SHS 60 x 3mm section to
a SHS 75 x Smm section to obtain a wrinkle free profile.
The stainless steel fascia was specified as a 3 plate (105 x 3mm, 81 x l.Smm and 75 x l.Smm)
system which was subsequently requested to be changed to a 2 plate (95 x 3mm and 95 x
3mm) system.
Additional 30 x 30 x 3mm aluminium tubes for the lighting supports for M/s. ANEL
Attendance, supervision and provision of work area/rent for the requirements for M/s. ANEL
Restrictions for on site mock-up/uncontrolled enviroment
M/s. TCAJV has served a notice of termination/omission of sections with which we can concur with
the latter if these are being omitted from the required scope of works, however the stated omission
are not due to any delays caused on our behalf. The above listed issues has caused delays to the
approval and time taken for the benchmark and subsequent execution of the works on site. The JV
make reference to "key dates" however, the fundamental issue which, the JV fail to acknowledge is
the fact that the execution of the works are subject to the benchmark approval which has been
considerably delayed due to the stated events.
M/s. Cloisall place on record that we will not accept or be liable for any delays and/or related costs,
expenses related to the aforementioned. It should further be noted that the JV recently verbally
extended a request to M/s. Cloisall to decrease the awarded scope of works whereby, only 10 no
lozenges are to be executed as oppose to the initial 173 no. Subsequently, we have advised our
specialist subcontractor of the same and was advised of additional cost for the omission, for which we
have submitted a revised price for the remainder 10 no lozenges under cover of ROM 108 Rev 2 dated
12th July 2017. The revised submission are more costly per unit than the unit cost contained within the
initial variation. This is due to the overall scope being significantly reduced and certain elemental cost
such as design, transport, etc. can only be split across a smaller quantity requirement. Details has
been submitted vide our Letter Ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11456/17 dated 19th December
2017.
M/s. Cloisall further reject that the value of the variation should be a negative AED 6,837,389.85 as
the JV in does not take cognisanze of the benchmark having to be paid along with the additional cost
associated with the benchmark as detailed below as the benchmark will form part of the permanent
work.
Payment of benchmark lozenge based on VO #16
Additional cost for change to the hanger pipe spine/ribs and the 5 set system
Additional cost for the plastic caps as requested by KPF
Additional cost for changes to the aluminium frame
Additional cost for the changes to the stainless steel fascia
Additional cost for the additional aluminium tubes for the lighting supports for M/ s. ANEL
Additional cost for the attendance, supervision and provision of work space for M/s. ANEL
Restrictions for on site mock-up/uncontrolled environment
Cost for the abortive/increase in design & engineering due to the reduction/ omission in scope
of works. Furthermore, M/s. Cloisall has submitted ROM 125 for the additional cost for the closure of
SHT-01
ceiling openings due to the above referenced omission for which a Variation Order is required should
the JV wish to proceed with the work. We refer the JV to our initial cost proposal for the Lighting Trays
(VO #14) and Lighting Lozenges (VO #16), for which we have offered a discount in obtaining the award

for both variation orders which was done due to the large scope of work. Due to the omission of the
entire scope of works of the Lozenges, the AED 648,212.15 discount included as part of this
agreement are no longer applicable and we would seek adjustment in VO #14.
We request that the JV convene a meeting on the matter in order to agree on the issues raised in
order to amicably conclude the lighting lozenge matters. We trust the above meets your approval,
however should you require any further clarification please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
