Subject RE: Notice of Delay due to Unfair Comments for PrA and PrO Door Interface
Drawing.

Dear Sir,
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of the Engineer's letter reference (1) which responds to a letter
sent by
the Contractor objecting to some unfair comments made by the Design Consultants (KPF/ Arup) on the
Contractor's door interface drawings for the PrA and PrD fac;:ade (6).
Firstly, the Contractor notes that its letter objecting to KPF/Arup comments was issued on the 16
December
2017 (6) and the Engineer's response was received 285 days later on 27 September 2018. This is neither
reasonable nor in accordance with the processing time contemplated in the Specification 013300
[Submittal
Procedures] .
Almost one year has elapsed since the Contractor forma lly objected to the comments made on its shop
drawings and requested KPF/ Arup to reconsider them. Please note that during this time the Contractor
has
resubmitted some of the shop drawings which, at present, are all code-02 approved in up to their fourth
revision. Some of the comments referred by KPF/ Arup in their letters (2) to (5) are no longer relevant as
they
have already been closed in the subsequent revisions of the shop drawings.
In relation to those comments that remain open thus far, the Contractor notes the following:
In letter (3), Arup confirmed that it had received the response sheet from the Engineer on 25 April
2018 and therefore the comments pertaining to the absence of this response sheet could be closed;
however, these comments remain open in the latest revision of the shop drawings. Amp is requested
to re-issue these shop drawings and close/remove all comments related to the absence of a response
sheet.
It was agreed during the workshop held on 07 September 2017 between representatives of the
Engineer, KPF/ Arup, the Contractor and the Subcontractor (Jangho) that the use of coa:ted aluminium
or stainless steel materials was not required for non-visible elements of the fac;:ade. The items
(screwsand plates) marked by Arup in the shop drawings are cladded and are therefore neither visible
nor
exposed to the external weather.
It was also discussed during the workshop held on 07 September 2017 that the wet sealant was
necessary due to the steel and brackets tolerances.
Finally, in relation to the Engineer's citation of Clause 1.7.2 [Contractor's Settled Claims] and Clause 1.7.4
[Included Circumstances] of the Amendment No. 8, the Contractor confirms that nothing contained in
the
aforementioned clauses states that the Contractor shall incorporate all comments made by KPF/Arup to
date
and/or re-submit shop drawings at the Engineer's convenience. The Engineer's request that the
Contractor resubmits
its code-02 approved shop drawings on this basis is unwarranted and will not be followed by the
Contractor.
Yours faithfully,
