
Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Assistant's ("EA") letter at reference 1 (received on 15 July 2015)
in which the EA responds to the Contractor's letter at reference 2 concerning the EA's "reminder" at
reference 3 "to include STKID 1, STKID 2, and STKID 3 milestones for AL Azizayah station ...in master
Programme update ...." (emphasis added) .

Within reference 1, the EA refers to the Contract's Volume 3, Appendix 2, Annexure 1 (Options Table)
and states (referring to footnote 3 of the Options Table): " Option KITO date to be agreed means that
the Engineer will determine a fair adjustment to the affected KITO dates and the corresponding Time for
Completion due to the Works being instructed before the Trigger Date ..." The EA then argues that
"Activation of this Option includes the omission of the Railway Facility Structure (RFS). Volume 5
Appendix F provides for STKID.01, STKID.02 and STKID.03 for the RFS at Al Aziziyah ...the Contract allows
for the Engineer to determine a fair adjustment of (these) affected KITO dates, as Al Aziziyah RFS is
being omitted and Al Aziziyah Station is being added."

The Contractor responds as follows.

The Contract's original scope of Works for Al Aziziyah Station consists of the design only of the Station,
nothing more. For this Station Section, the only agreed Time for Completion is STKID.DE (via Volume 5
Appendix F) which has a contractually agreed date of completion of 31 July 2016 . STKID.DE is defined
within Volume 5 Appendix F Item C2 as "Complete design (DC1 + DC2) of the station box and related
structures."

In lieu of a Station construction at Al Aziziyah, the Employer originally required only the design and
construction of a Railway Facility Structure ("RFS") at Al Aziziyah. To this end, the Contract reflects this
agreed original scope of Works. Volume 5, item 2.2.14.2 describes the scope of the RFS works:

" The Contractor shall allow for the design and construction of the RFS . . .only at Vil/aggio (as an
alternative
to Villaggio station box) whose functions shall include but are limited to:

a)

Recovery of the TBMs;

b)
Permanent Emergency Exit from overrun tunnels between Sports City Station Rail Facilities
Structure Villaggio;
c)
Permanent Tunnel ventilation, cooling, and all other tunnel MEP function for the overrun
tunnels, and
d)
Includes all provisions for the construction of the contiguous Villaggio station at a later date
without impacting the operation of the Gold Line" (emphasis added).

From this description of the RFS' functions, the RFS is clearly a wholly different scope of works to the
design and construction of a full station box and its associated fit-out, hence the above (emphasized)
wording used by the Employer within its drafting of item 2.2.14.2 i.e. that only an RFS is to be designed
and constructed and that it is viewed as an alternative to a Station box. The attached drawing of the RFS
(Attachment 1) included with Volume 11 of the Contract also demonstrates the very limited nature and
scope of the RFS works when compared with that of a full station box and its associated fit-out.

For the agreed scope of works for the RFS (which, as noted, are significantly less and different in nature
than that of a full station box and its fit-out), the agreed Time(s) for Completion (via Volume 5,Appendix
F, item C1) are STKID.01 (31 January 2017), STKID.02 (30 April 2017), STKID.03 (31 October 2017) and
STTO (31
August 2018). Consequently , the scope of RFS works required to be completed by these contractually
agreed Time(s) for Completion are significantly less and different in nature than the combined Option 1
and part Option 5 works (for a full station box construction and associated fit-out at Al Aziziyah) which
the EA now states (within references 1and 3) are to be completed by exactly the same dates.

The aforementioned footnote 3 (of Volume 3, Appendix 2, Annexure 1 (Options Table)) quoted by the
EA in support of its argument refers to the Engineer determining "a fair adjustment to the affected KITO
dates and the corresponding Time for Completion due to the Works being instructed before the Trigger
Date ..." (emphasis added). The EA then refers to the affected KITO dates as being the RFS KITO dates
because the RFS works have been omitted whilst exercising Option 1 & Part Option 5.

However, the Contractor believes that the EA is incorrect in making this statement for the following
reasons.

Firstly, other than the original STKID.DE milestone for Al Aziziyah Station (which is for design only and is
not for the construction completion requirements of STKID 01, 02 and 03), there are no original Al
Aziziyah Station KITO dates to be affected by the exercise of Options 1 and 5. If there are no KITO dates
to be affected by the exercise of Options 1 and 5, there can be no Engineer's determination (via
footnote 3 of the Volume 3, Appendix 2, Annexure 1 Options Table) of a fair adjustment to such nonexistent "affected" KITO dates.

Secondly, Options 1 and 5, as written in the Contract, do not refer within their descriptions to the
omission of the RFS and so it cannot be correctly stated by the EA with contractual authority that the
"affected KITO dates" referred to within footnote 3 with respect to Options 1 and 5 are the original RFS
KITO dates.

Thirdly, the RFS works and their corresponding KITO dates (which represent the completion
requirements of the particular nature and limited extent of the RFS works) have been omitted in their
entirety via Engineer's Instruction ("El") Nr 003. As the entire RFS works have been omitted, the
particular RFS KITO dates have also been omitted as they can no longer apply in any way to works

omitted in their entirety. Accordingly, the omitted KITO dates cannot be validly retained and "adjusted"
by any means under the terms of the Contract to apply
to works of a totally different nature and extent, namely to a station box and fit-out which have been
instructed by the Engineer in lieu of the original RFS.

In conclusion, the Contractor believes that it is not contractually compelled "to comply" with the EA's
letter at reference 3. However, as stated within reference 2, for programme monitoring purposes, the
Contractor will insert milestones (which are not Time(s) for Completion under the Contract) with dates
the same as the STKID dates for the other stations, as requested by the EA
The contractor would be pleased to meet and discuss the matter further to assist with resolution.
Yours faithfully,
