Subject:Re-Grouting Works to Pier 4 (GH 38) and Cracking to LB1 Slab
Dear Sir
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of our letters ref: (2) and (4), in which not only do you
allege that we are directly responsible for the cracking to the Level LB.1 raft slab, but are attempting to
hold us liable for delays following our decision not to continue with further grouting works given (a) the
seriousness of the issue; and (b), pending definitive instructions from you as to how we are to proceed.
We have consistently maintained that the subsidence that has occurred and continues to occur on this
Project (affecting both the MTB Works and the MTA Works), is not of our doing. We further remind you
that we are not the designers for this Project, the Employer’s Design Consultant is; it is their
responsibility, under your guidance, to provide us with the design of all the subsidence remediation
measures.
The re-grouting works to Pier 4 was designed by the Employer’s Design Consultant and instructed by
you. We have simply undertaken the grouting works as designed and instructed to do so. While we are
aware of the requirement to improve the ground to achieve the minimum SPT N60 value of 30, it is the
Employer’s Design Consultant who insisted on deeper grouting, despite us hitting ‘competent rock’ at a
higher level to achieve the minimum SPT value, and despite it being apparent that some areas are
unlikely to achieve this due to the non-porous nature of the material that will not allow any grout
permeation to occur. It is as a result of works that we have been instructed to do that has caused the
cracking to the raft slab to Level LB.1; it is not due to any fault or culpability on our part; nor can it be
construed as such. That is why we object to you perceiving this as a ‘defect’ and unequivocally reject
NCR-01630 (ref: 5).
We have continually and consistently kept you and the Employer’s Design Consultant informed of all of
the various actions that we have so far taken in relation to the cracking to the Level LB.1 raft slab while
undertaking the re-grouting works to Pier 4 (GH 38); our letters ref: (2) and (4) refer. As noted therein
we expressed our concerns about continuing with re-grouting works and that an already serious issue
has the potential to become even more serious and could lead to more uplift and more cracks in the
slab, that could affect the structural integrity of the structural slabs and walls. In light of this and in light
of the fact that the Employer’s Design Consultant is responsible for the design of the subsidence
remediation measures (and is responsible for the design of the structure of the MTB including the

Basement), then it is imperative for him to take the lead and for you to instruct us following his
recommendations.
We must therefore insist that between you, you collectively lead any further investigations and provide
clear and definitive instructions on any further investigation we may be required to undertake on your
joint behalf, as well as instruct us to undertake the requisite rectification and reinstatement works.
Meanwhile, it is our contention that your on-going failure to direct the Employer’s Design Consultant to
assist and instruct us on this matter as previously requested in letters ref: (2) and (4) and repeated
herein, are tantamount to acts of prevention, giving rise to our entitlement to claim an extension to the
Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c) and an adjustment to the Contract Price in
accordance with Clause 21.1 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or in the alternative, damages for breach of
contract.
Yours faithfully,
