Subject:Further Confirmed Coronavirus (COVID-19) Cases – Smiths Detection and AECOM – Impacting
the PBSS and HBSS Testing & Commissioning
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our general letters ref: (1), (2) and (3) in relation to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic,
as well as our most recent letter ref: (4) advising you of a specific instance where a Subcontractor’s
Engineer (working for OTIS) has been tested positive for the COVID-19 virus, and now write to advise
you of the following:
On 5 April 2020, it came to our attention that one of the Safety Officers working for one of our
Subcontractors (Smiths Detection, who are responsible for the Hold Baggage Screening System (HBSS)
and Passenger Baggage Screening System (PBSS)), has tested positive for the COVID-19 virus. As a
consequence, Smith Detection’s site-based employees have been placed under quarantine for 14 days.
This will subsequently impact the ongoing HBSS support and testing of PBSS equipment. There is also
the possibility this may impact upon the Baggage Handling System (BHS) subcontractor (Crisplant).

We have also been made aware that an AECOM employee, responsible for the QA / QC of the Lift,
Escalator and Travelator (LET) installations, has also been tested positive for the COVID-19 virus. We
have yet to be advised further on this and the ramifications this may have on the LET Works. As this is a
serious issue health and safety issue potentially affecting our staff, our Subcontractors’ staff and the site
operatives on the Project, we are concerned that we have not yet received correspondence from you
and/or the Engineer with details of the incident. Can you please revert with details on this matter so
that we can investigate the potential exposure of our staff, our Subcontractors’ staff and the site
operatives.
In our letters ref (1) to (3) we wrote to express our concern associated with the rapidity by which the
virus is spreading and the implications on the Project given the close proximity and environment in
which our site operatives as well as members of our staff, the Engineer’s staff and your own staff are
working. It is therefore unfortunate that persons directly associated with this Project are now becoming
infected with the COVID-19 virus and despite our best efforts to minimise such risk, the risk to us all is
increasing.
We will nevertheless continue to monitor the situation and keep you updated as matters develop. In
your capacity of Employer, we once again request your guidance in how to best manage the current
situation to minimise the risk of exposure to the virus to all working on the Project and indeed the
greater public.
Yours faithfully,
