Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0181
Abu Dhabi Municipality (ADM) Inspections
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays consequent upon ADM’s inspections of the plumbing
installations to the Central Process Area, specifically associated with a change to their inspection criteria.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined in Annex A (ADM inspections), will,
if allowed to continue, knock on and delay plumbing NOCs which is an essential requisite in enabling us
obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone MS09B.
Any delay to Milestone MS09B may prevent us achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
You are undoubtedly aware that ADM Plumbing Inspections are continuing to be undertaken on site. In
order to do so, the ADM inspector is relying on a significant number of approved as-built drawings.
On 13 November 2019, a site inspection meeting was held in ADAC’s offices, attended by ADM’s
plumbing inspector, as well as attended by representatives from AECOM, TCA JV and PCE JV, in order to
discuss ADM’s inspections of the plumbing installations to the Central Process Area (CPA). However, it
was during this meeting that the ADM inspector advised that he was limiting his inspections to just 10
as-built drawings per day. Bearing in mind that only one (1) ADM inspector is undertaking inspections,
then it is estimated that it will take him until 16 April 2020 to inspect the plumbing installations to the
entire CPA.
This is an unnecessarily protracted period of time, which if ADM are allowed to continue in this manner,
will knock on and delay plumbing NOCs which is an essential requisite in enabling us obtain the Building
Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone MS09B. Moreover, any
delay to Milestone MS09B may prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone MS09C).
We therefore request your urgent action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.

This may take the form of urging the Employer to insist that ADM inspections are undertaken by more
than one inspector or that the 10 drawing limit is removed or a combination of both. Either way, kindly
ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Subject:Consolidated Delay Analysis for events between 2 May 2019 and 1 August 2019 (TIA No.2- Post
SAA8)
Yours faithfully,
