Subject:Notification of Potential Damage to Utilities due to Engineer’s Verbal Directives to Increase
Amount of Injected Grout from 200L to 300L to Various Areas
Dear Sirs,
Specification Section 313223.33 governs ‘Loose Soil Zone Permeation Grouting under Manholes and
Pipes’. Article 3.7.A ‘Utilities and Obstruction’ states that: ‘The Contractor shall undertake the Works in
a manner such that existing services and utilities are not impacted, displaced or damaged by the
grouting works.’ We further record Article 3.9.A.1.a (under ‘Acceptance Criteria’) states amongst other
things that: ‘Permeation grouting shall be deemed successfully completed if … the following conditions
are met: For treated soils at any point within treatment zone: a minimum of SPT N60 of 30 in
accordance with BS EN ISO 22476-3. Where any SPT result is less that the minimum value, further details
shall be provided to the Engineer. Further grouting may be required to improve the grouting where this
criterion is not met.’
With this in mind we wish to put on record that we have received a series of oral instructions from you
where you have insisted that we increase the amount of injected grout from 200L to 300L at each layer
through the TAM nozzle. This has been discussed during various meetings and workshops, and was most
recently mentioned at Item 2.7 of the MTB Subsidence Weekly Meeting dated 2 March 2020 (ref: 4).
However, having done so, and as recorded in inter alia the above referenced e-mails (refs: 1 to 3) [copies
attached hereto], we have since observed heave to each of the following areas:
1.
E-mail dated 6 February 2020 relates to VBH results near MV Chamber at Head of Pier 2
2.
E-mail dated 15 February 2020 relates to grouting works in the vicinity of GH19 and GH20
3.
E-mail dated 16 February 2020 relates to grouting to sewer line on GSE read between GH08GH09
The attached report from BAUER on GH (S1204 – S1205) provides further explanation on how the heave
is activated. We are therefore appreciably concerned that the heave has the potential to damage the
existing utilities in the immediate vicinity and therefore this letter serves to notify of this likelihood.
On the basis of existing types of soil strata “with high silt and clay content”, this is classified as unpermeable soil; therefore increasing the injected grout quantities does not result in an increase in the

specified strength of SPT N60 of 30. Increasing the volume of grout is more likely to cause potential
heave and damages to the existing services and utilities. Hence, we do not accept any liability for
resultant damage arising therefrom. Moreover, we further advise that to the extent that any potential
damage causes delay, then we will be seeking to recover the associated additional time and costs.
Yours faithfully,
