Dear Sir,
Scrutiny of Specification. Drawings and all other parts of the Subcontract.

Subcontractor confirms receipt of Contractor's letter ref. 1) above, reminding us of our
responsibilities regarding the review of relevant Project information and the need to bring to your
attention any previously unreported discrepancies, errors or omissions within seven day.
Subcontractor in accordance with the Subcontract, reserves its right to advise Contractor of
discrepancies, errors or omissions that may give rise to a position at a future date, as and when
we become aware of such issues.
Subcontractor confirms that we have previously brought to your attention e.g. via correspondence,
meeting, reports and RFis, many discrepancies, errors and/or omissions e.g. inconsistences
between IFC Drawings and Layouts, inconsistences between Specifications and Drawings, etc.
Subcontractor notes that in co-ordination with other specialist sub-contractors and contractors, we
have relied upon their professional expertise, skill, care and judgement to coordinate, execute and
complete their Works in accordance with Project Specifications, coordinated and approved Shop
Drawings, etc, for example Fire Life Safety Systems, Power and Data installations, Security
Systems, FIDS, BHS, BMS, Task Lighting and Telephone supports, etc. Subcontractor will not be
held responsible or accountable for any delays or additional costs due to any re-Works that may
be necessary due to other specialist sub-contractors or contractors failure in completing their own
scope of Works in accordance with the Project Specifications, etc.
Subcontractor further notes that as yet, no End User Equipment has been installed on Site and
therefore we cannot confirm that there will be no issues related to their installation within our
furniture, e.g. CUTE, Immigration Department servers and equipment, etc. Subcontractor has
coordinated the designs and progressed production based upon the Project information received
at that time.
Yours faithfully,
