Subject: RE: Notice of Delay for Side Opaque Bridge Input Information
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1) wherein the Subcontractor claims that the
Contractor's failure to provide the handrail and slab edge design details is having both cost and time
impact on the Subcontract Works. To be clear:
The Subcontractor shall provide its own framing following the structural IFC design and in line
with the principles set out in the IFC architectural packages. This is clearly stated in paragraph 2 of
the 'Narrative for Fa!;ade Package Subcontract' which is an integral part of Schedule 0 [Scope of
Subcontract Works] of the Subcontract and reads as follows: 'The steel structure demonstrated on
the architectural drawings is indicative only. The scope of steel structure works are clearly defined
in the structural steelwork drawings (i.e. Books 2i, 2j and 2k}. The Facade Sub-Contractor is
expected to provide all the framing system required to support his own cladding system and
coordinate his works with all related trades including structural steel to provide a full solution'.
The Subcontractor is still expected to resubmit its shop drawings for the approval of the fascia
cladding considering the above and in accordance with the modulation defined in (2) and (4).
The Subcontractor is also requested to leave 350 mm at each side of its fascia joint to allow for
the provision of a support framing for these handrail posts (if required).
The Contractor is currently coordinating with the Other Subcontractor Leader Metal to obtain
confirmation on the size of the penetration into the Subcontractor's top panel (if any is required);
however, such detail requires KPF finalises the design for the additional steel frame to support the
aluminium parapet and handrail at the opaque bridges. Please be aware that the Contractor has
already notified the Engineer that any further delays in the completion of KPF's detailed design
may impact the Works via its Notice of Likely Delay No. 2713 (3). Hence, the Contractor advises
that the Subcontractor proceeds with the submission of its shop drawings whilst including a note
on the drawings that the top panels will be finalised upon receipt of the final details from KPF. For the
sake of clarity, the Contractor confirms that the design details pending confirmation shall not
prevent the Subcontractor from submitting its shop drawings or continuing with the remaining items of
work associated to this fascia.
Yours faithfully,
