Subject Contractor's Non-Compliance- Architectural Hardware Consultant (AHC)
and Remaining Related Works
Cross Ref. Section 087100 of the Specification
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Contractor's non-compliance in adhering to their contractual
obligations regarding the provision of an Architectural Hardware Consultant (AHC) for the doors'
hardware, as defined in the Project's Specifications and the approved submitta l MS/0401/C/0463
dated 07 February 2017.
The Engineer has been verbally informed that the Contractor will demobilize soon their Architectural
Hardware Consultant and has not provided any details regarding his replacement or the handing over
process that is to be implemented. To ensure compliance with the Project's Specifications which calls
for the availability of the AHC during the course of the works (Clause 1.5 A reiterated below) and to
further examine and adjust each item of the doors hardware three months after the Substantial
Completion date (Clause 3.4 B reiterated below). It is evident that there are still significant works and
issues related to doors' hardware that are still ongoing, or not yet commenced including but not
limited to the Gates activation failure in the Piers, key core changing for all the MTB, and Testing and
Commissioning of electrified doors. These are critical works at this stage of the Project that need to be
attended to and addressed promptly.
Clause 1.5 (Quality Assurance), Section 087100 of the Specifications states:
15 QUALITY A. SURANCE

Subject Notice to Correct- Shortage of Manpower
Dear Sir,
We write further to the issued Notice to Correct pursuant to Clause 12.9.6 of the Conditions of
Contract (1,2,3) regarding the shortage in manpower with respect to the Contractor's Subcontractors.
We record that despite the issued Notices, the Contractor did not implement any measures to
mitigate the shortages in the manpower and has failed to manage his Subcontractors and as a result
progress has been hindered .
The status of resources for the Contractor, ANEL and PCEJV as at 30 March 2020 was as follows:
Anel Direct manpower 637 versus 2200 planned (Shortage of 1563)
PCEJV Direct manpower 508 versus 950 planned (Shortage of 442)
TCAJV overall Direct manpower 5582 versus 8387 Planned (Shortage 2805) •
\''
Additionally, key staff have been demobilized within the TCAJV organizatioh as follows: ·
• CSI (Commissioning Management) have fully demobilized, approximately 150 staff with the
potential for a significant impact on commissioning progress
• TCAJV team responsible for delivery of Cause & Effect have been demobilized
• Siemens have significantly reduced their numbers of commissioning staff (approximately 3
remain of the 40 previously on site)
• Schneider have fully demobilized
• Euptech have fully demobilized
• Panarabia have fully demobilized
• TCA-JV site management team responsible for delivery of ATLAS scope have been demobilized
We urgently require the Contractor to provide their revised organization chart(s) and demonstrate
how this reduced level of management will be mitigated to prevent significant further delays to

project delivery.
Subject: Stone Tile Cracking
Dear Sir
We write with reference to the observed stone tile cracking and enclose herewith the observation
reports for the piers, the gatehouses and the cp which have identified significant new cracking. Screed
records confirm that the new stone tile cracks are occurring over both wet-mix and semi-dry screed.
The contractor is requested to immediately carry out an investigation along with the stone
subcontractor. A complete stone flooring survey of the piers and cp stone installations is required to
document the current conditions. Furthermore, exploratory coring shall take place in order to
investigate the root cause of cracking and to ascertain the extents and nature of cracking. All coring
locations, to be agreed with the engineer in advance.
The contractor is directed to take immediate mitigation measures and all necessary actions to expedite
the completion of the works to recover the delays caused by the contractor to date and to submit their
programme for completion of all associated works within five (5) days from the date of receipt of this
letter.
We hereby reserve the employer’s rights under clause 10.3 of the conditions of contract for any delays
to the project as a result of the contractor’s inaction and defective work.
Yours faithfully
