
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0241
Contradictory Responses to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 – Requirement for Elevator Machine
Enclosure – Request for Engineer’s Instruction / Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The responses to RFI/0401/17795 received on 28 March 2020 detailed in Annex A regarding the
provision of Elevator Machine Covers are contradictory and requires a valid EI and VO in order for us
proceed.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
Site Memo SM-03207
On 13 February 2019, we received Site Memo (SM) No: MTC-CMA-0401-QC-MEM-03207 associated with
the ‘LET- Lift Shaft & Machine room Fire Rating Issue’ worded in the manner reproduced below:
‘During the various WIR inspections, CMA noted that the opening from the lift deflector sheave
arrangement into the shaft from the lift machine room was open and not closed. This possess a risk of
people / things falling into the shaft thro' this opening. Designer has commented in their GAD review to
provide the fire rating closure for such opening. Apart from the above the holes / cut-outs for the MEP
and Electrical services were also not closed properly. This is not in line with the IBC code requirement as
referenced in the Spec 142100- 1.5 Regulatory agencies and EN-81-1- 6.3’
‘… Contractor to follow the installation as per the approved details.’
Attached to Site Memo SM-03207 was:
1.
A series of four (4) photographs;
2.
Copies of three (3) Contractor / Otis Elevator Shop Drawings; i.e. Machine Room Plan for ELV-0506; Shaft Plan & Pit Plan for ELV-05-06; and Sectional Elevation for ELV-05-06;
3.
Highlighted extracts taken from two (2) pages of the 2006 International Building Code
concerning ‘Fire Resistance Rated Construction’;
4.
Extracts from British Standards EN 81-1:1998 +A3:2009 Section 6.3.5 ‘other openings’; and
5.
A copy of WIR-LET-00959-01 relating to the Machine & Overhead Pulley for Sector 5.27.
Meanwhile, we received Site Memo SM-03395 on 5 December 2019 relating to the ‘LET- Machine
Inspection Panel Shaft Interface Issue’, and is worded as follows:
‘Location: Pier 4- ELV-04-02.
Description: During inspections, CMA noted that the opening for the machine into shaft is closed with a
partition inside the lift machine room. The fire rating partition was fully closed around the inspection

cover (rope & sheave/pulley). In addition, the opening at the shaft side is not closed & left with open
space. This space is accessible enough for a person to stand there. This is an HSE risk.
The lift machine rooms are completed and lifts were in normal operation and some of the units are in
areas that are soon due to be taken over by the Employer.
Requirements: Contractor to check and necessary actions within 2 weeks from the receipt of this site
memo. Contractor to make proper co-ordination drawing for review and approval. Contractor to provide
a mock-up for review and approval. Contractor to comply with the Spec 1421 00.’
We responded to Site Memo SM-03207 on 30 December 2019, commenting as follows:
‘1.
Contradicts with MEMO 3395.
2.
All machine openings will be provided with a removable steel enclosure as per the attached.’
We also stated on the front of SM-03207 as follows: ‘Please refer to attached response sheet and emails, requested to close the memo accordingly.’ In which respect attached were a series of e-mails
exchanged between the Employer and the Employer’s Fire Life Safety Consultant (ProFire) dated 14
November 2019 [copied to us] entitled ‘Agreement regarding Enclosing of Gate House Elevator Shaft
Opening’;
The attached e-mail from ProFire dated 14 November 2019 [1:02 PM] reads as follows:
'ADAC's AHJ and Operations, Profire, and the JV agreed upon the following code compliant resolution to
the Gate House Elevator's common wall opening between the Machine Room and Elevator Shaft, during
a meeting on Tuesday (November 12, 2019).
Provide a 2-hour fire-rated enclosure assembly fabricated to extend over the shaft wall opening that
was provided to permit the installation and access for future elevator car maintenance and repair of the
elevator's motor shaft and shaves, as well as, rope replacement. This removable enclosure assembly
shall be fabricated to cover all exposed opening areas around the fixed in-place motor drive equipment
to create a tight seal at the wall.
Openings around motor shaft and all countered sides of the equipment to be less than 2" (51mm) on all
sides for code compliance.
Fastening of this enclosure assembly should be along both the side and top of the wall, in order to
create a tight fit.
Provide handles for ease of handling during removal & replacement.
The enclosure can be fabricated using either:
1.
Two (2) hour Durasteel assembly.·
Following is their local contact information ….
2.
Steel plate, countered to fit around the side and top of equipment, shall be a minimum of 118"
(0.125 mm) thickness and coated with intumescent paint to achieve a 2-hour fire resistance on both
sides. The selected Intumescent Coating manufacturer shall determine mil /I micron thickness, since
each manufacturer's coating thickness for 2-hour ratings is predicated on their proprietary coating
formula for the specific substrate material and thickness.’
RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00
Following which, on 9 March 2020, we raised RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 entitled ‘Elevator Machine Room
Openings to Elevator Shafts’ in which we sought your further clarification of the following:
‘During Pier 4 Cause and Effect and through MTC-CMA-0401-QC-MEM-03207, we have received a
comment related to the elevator machine room to elevator shaft opening at 88.P4.L01.0622.16.AS for
elevator 04-02. IFC documentation does not provide an interface detail between the elevator machines
and the shaft walls. In elevator sectional drawings (a-07 series), the wall section is left open (refer to
attachment). The comment is addressed at P4 by closing the gaps around the elevator machines with
gypsum board (refer to attachment), and BCC for P4 is obtained. Same detail shall be applied project
wide as per the list of applicable machine rooms enclosed. Kindly confirm.’

Attached to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 was the following:
1.
An extract of an IFC Drawing – Cross Section (Figure 1);
2.
An extract of an IFC Drawing – Plan View (Figure 2);
3.
A series of site photographs (Figure 3); and
4.
A list of Elevator Machine Rooms with Horizontal Machine Openings (Figure 4).
Figure 1 – ELV-01-01 Cross Section
Partial Extract of IFC Drawing No: MTC-A-07-TB … 00.272 00

Figure 3 – List of Elevator Machine Rooms
with Horizontal Machine Openings
We requested a response to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 by 20 March 2010. However, you failed to reply
until 8 calendar days later on 28 March 2020. Irrespective, we detailed below the respective replies:
The Employer’s Design Consultant’s response states:
‘Lift machine openings/closure should have been coordinated by TCA-JV with the lift contractor. In
principle, no objection to close this opening in the mentioned lifts with gypsum board, finish and colour
to match the adjacent wall. Contractor to ensure that detail of closing this opening is complying with
code/ authorities requirement and coordinated with adjacent works and finishes. Contractor to provide
updated and coordinated shop drawings at each of the noted lifts/locations for consultants review
accordingly. Note: this detail is for the noted lifts/locations ONLY and note a ‘blank’ approval to be used
everywhere. Contractor to submit on a case by case basis for review. Contractor proposal for Code
Compliance / No time-Cost impact.’
While your [Engineer] response states:
‘Contractor to ensure the elevator maintenance can be performed as described in the OTIS O&M
manuals. Reference is made to section 142100-1.15 MAINTENANCE (item C.13).
Demonstration of how Contractor will maintain the elevator machine room pulley equipment is
required. Refer also to ADAC comment -ensure panels are removable.’
ADAC’s response reads as follows:
‘Profire Response: Profire don't have any objection for closing the shaft openings based on the
FLS perspective.
ADAC (Ebrahim Faramarzi): The Contractor must ensure their proposal for closing gaps take into
consideration of elevator machinery future maintenance, therefore installed panels must be removal
without getting damaged which may require replacement every time during maintenance regime and
provide a degree of smoke and fire prevention into lift shaft and LMR as previously commented by PF
specialist fire consultants.’
In relation to the above responses we make the following comments and observations:
The traction elevator machine design (as per IFC Specification Section 142100 ‘Elevators’) require
openings in the elevator machine rooms with the adjacent elevator shafts. These openings are detailed
in the IFC Drawings (A-07 series) but are to be coordinated with the elevator subcontractor based on the
actual machine sizes. As per the IFC Specification Section 142100 Article 2.2.K.1.f and 2.2.K.5 (refer to
Figure 4 and Figure 5 below), the remaining gaps after the elevator machine installation are to be
closed. However, there are no requirements for “maintenance”, “specific material”, or “fire rating”
specified.
Figure 4 - Specification Section 142100 ‘Elevators’
Extract of Article 2.2.K.1.f
Figure 5 - Specification Section 142100 ‘Elevators’

Extract of Article 2.2.K.5
According to the above, and to prevent any safety hazard and considering future maintenance, initially
we proposed to close the opening with a “removable cover”, in the manner shown in Figure 6 below.
Figure 6 – Initial Proposal
Removable Wire Mesh Cover
However, our initial proposal was rejected and we received AHJ comment to close these openings to
achieve 2 hours fire rating as below through AHJ/ADIA/POT/MTC/C&E/18/01 (see Table 1 below):
Table 1
No.
Inspection Type Comments
3
ProFire FLS Inspection Report Lift machine room (Room 0622) & lift shaft was not fire
compartmented (2hr). Contractor to ensure opening is
fire separated to achieve 2hr fire resistance
The comment is unreasonable and does not have a CODE reference. Nevertheless, in order to be able to
close the ProFire comment, and to obtain BCC for Pier 4 to catch milestones; our site team closed the
opening with non-removable fire rated gypsum board. This was approved by AHJ even though we did
not apply any fire sealant between the elevator machine enclosure and gypsum board (refer to Figure
7):
Figure 7 – AHJ and Civil Defence (Pier 4) Approved TCAJV Proposal
However, the applied gypsum boards are not removable, and consequently will be destroyed every time
a maintenance activity is carried out inside the elevator machine enclosure. We further record that due
to maintenance concerns highlighted from various parties, we were requested to close these openings
with a removable and fire rated material. A suggestion was made by the AHJ (ProFire) during a
workshop to close the opening with a fire rated solid steel or composite panels, without applying a
sealant in between the additional panel and the elevator machine enclosure. It was for this reason you
raised Site Memo MTC-CMA-0401-QC-MEM-03207 to record the issue and compel us to follow ProFire’s
solution.
However, there are two issues with this: firstly is the additional costs and time (despite the response to
RFI/0401/17795 stating otherwise); and secondly, this solution does not provide a full “2 hour
fire/smoke rating” as no sealant would be applied between the fire rated removable steel board and
elevator machine enclosure. In addition, elevator machine enclosures (provided by OTIS) are not
fire/smoke rated. The fact remains, this does not represent any update or development beyond our
approved proposal.
Therefore, we were compelled to raise RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00, informing you that there are no details
contained in the existing IFC Drawings, hence we proposed a non-removable fire rated gypsum board
and seek to apply the same approved solution project wide. We record however, there are three very
different responses to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00; all contradicting each other; specifically:
1.
The Employer’s Design Consultant’s Response: Confirms our proposal, allows us to proceed.
2.
Your (AECOM) Response: Requests site demonstration for the maintenance purposes,
removable panels are requested; and.
3.
The Employer’s (ADAC) Response: Profire confirms the compliance with FLS (fire life safety
aspects). However, LET Project Manager (ADAC) requests the panels to be removable.
As explained above, obtaining both the fire rating/smoke reduction, and the maintainability at the same
time is not possible without a proper design. This is not currently part of the existing IFC design.
Moreover, given the contradictory nature of the various responses to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 there is

no clear and definitive direction as to what we are required to do. This is delaying the Works for all the
Piers and CP.
Therefore, we require clear, unequivocal instructions in order for us to proceed. Moreover, responses 2
and 3 are additional and represents a change to our scope of Works. As a result, if such works are to be
undertaken, then we will incur additional time associated with the preparation and approval of Shop
Drawings, plus additional time in procuring the elevator machine enclosure materials and installing
them on site. There is also the direct cost associated with the procurement and installation of the
additional elevator machine enclosure utilising additional labour, plant and access scaffolding etc.;
which will involve return visits to previously completed work/areas. Plus there are the costs of delay
resulting therefrom.
Therefore for KPF to expect us to absorb the costs and time for all of that is totally unacceptable.
Further, as the Employer’s Design Consultant is the designers for this Project, we accept no liability or
responsibility for changes to the existing IFC Design; this remains with the Employer’s Design Consultant.
We further remind you that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required
and any change / additional variations work will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a
Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works.
Accordingly the express provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of SAA8 are patently clear: We are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Therefore, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29
and provide a definitive instruction on which option you wish to integrate into the Works, and instruct
us formally – providing a set of IFC Drawing and a covering Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order –
we are unable to proceed with implementing any change to the existing IFC Design into the Works; and
will therefore continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC Design to the extent we are able
Yours faithfully,
