Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0200
BHS – Floor Painting Directional Arrows – Level L1.0 Drive Isles
Receipt of Etihad / ADAC Ops ‘Approved’ Drawings on 8 January 2020 – Request for Issued for
Construction Drawings and Engineer’s Instruction/Variation Order
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) entitled ‘Floor Markings at the BHS Areas (L1.0)’, which while on the face
of it was not issued in direct response to our E-Notice No. 0200 (ref: 2), it nevertheless touches on the
very issue subject to that notice; and you maintaining the position that “this issue was clarified … in June
2016” and as it was “known” i.e. clarified, then it is considered by you to be captured in SAA8.
For the reasons comprehensively set out in our letter ref: (2) we disagree; and it is clearly evident from
your letter (1), that you have ignored the evidence of facts or missed the crux of the issue entirely.
Firstly, how is it possible that we “should have” submitted Shop Drawings based upon responses to the
RFIs listed in letter ref: (2) when the replies failed to provide any setting out details, or specific shapes,
sizes or dimensions of the directional arrows to the BHS arrival and departure areas to Level L1.0?.
Secondly, it was not until receipt of the Employer’s e-mail dated 8 January 2020 [3:43 PM] that we were
finally provided with [signed] “approved drawings” of the BHS L1.0 Floor Marking Setting Out.
Thirdly, when compared with the original IFC Drawing attached to our letter dated 23 November 2014
(ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/003309), shows a fundamental difference between the two Drawings. Hence
the approved drawing issued on 8 January 2020 represents an unequivocal change in design and scope.
Therefore we are entirely justified in requesting a formal EI / VO from you if you wish for this works to
be implemented; the obligations placed upon you by SAA8 are explicit. We also maintain our rights to
seek to recover any additional time and cost implications arising from this ‘act of prevention’.
To this end, until such time you take the action required of you and issue us an EI / VO in accordance
with the express requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing any changes to
the Floor Markings at the BHS Areas (L1.0) and will maintain what is reflected in the existing IFC design.
Yours faithfully,
