Subject:

Substantiation of Prolongation Costs Submission

Dear Sir,
Further to your submission of Prolongation Costs (i.e. Monthly Prolongation Cost Submissions) and in
continuation to our letter referenced (1) above and further to our meetings regarding this matter, be
informed that we have audited your submission and we have forwarded the same to the Engineer for its
determination.
Please note that our determination is subject to the Engineer’s determination for this matter. At this
juncture, pursuant to Clause 11.4 [Determinations] please note that “The Subcontractor agrees that
where the Subcontract provides that the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with clause 11.4 to
agree or determine any matter, if the matter relates or pertains to a matter which the Contractor has
referred to the Engineer for agreement or determination pursuant to similar provisions under the main
Contract, the Contractor shall be entitled, but not obliged, to rely on the Engineer’s agreement or
determination in respect of such matter.”
In light of the foregoing and as per our previous correspondence regarding this matter, please note that
substantiation and clarification are required to enable the Engineer and subsequently ourselves to make
a determination in regards to your entitlement. Please note that we are not obligated under the
Contract as mentioned above, to give any determination in regards to your Prolongation Costs
Submission if the Engineer has not determined the matter beforehand.
Moreover, after our review you are advised to resubmit your Monthly Prolongation Costs in the form of
a Claim in line with relevant Clauses of the Subcontract Agreement, taking into consideration the
comments described herein. In order to assist us in establishing your entitlement, you are also required
to provide pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each
delay event, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and demonstrating the Critical
Activities and Concurrent Delays. This will indicate and quantify the impact of delays with the Critical
Path and enable us to review any entitlement you may have for additional time. Additionally, it is
noteworthy that you should ensure the format, contents and structure of your Submission are prepared
and provided in an acceptable manner in line with the requirements provided to you previously.
Notwithstanding the above, we reiterate that you are requested to resubmit your Monthly Prolongation
Costs in the form of a Claim in line with Clauses 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion],
27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of the Subcontract. Failure to provide the
necessary information will prejudice both the Subcontractor's entitlement and the Contractor's ability to
evaluate these Prolongations Costs to the satisfaction of all parties.
In view of the above and all previous correspondence on this matter, we urge you to work with us to
ensure all appropriate and necessary information is provided, in order to be able to make our
determination.
This is for your information, record and prompt action and we look forward to receiving the required
information and detailed substantiation within 14 days of receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully,
