Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/MOSART/L/000511 dated 17-Jan-18, regarding as-built drawing
schedule, we regret to note that your as-built drawing submission schedule is yet to be received.
In the absence of your response, with reference to the Target As-built Drawing Schedule Rev 02.1 issued
to yourselves under above mentioned TCAJV letter, please be reminded that the scheduled dates are
overdue.
Moreover, it has been observed that your submission of as-built drawings of Pier 4 & Pier 3 have
currently become critical for the Project Handing Over.
As per the Programme Rev. 10.4 and Project Close-out Forecasting Principle including As-built BIM
Model submission and approval durations, final As-built Drawing submissions may not exceed the
following latest dates for each stage of the building completion:
• Pier 4 -- 03 May 2018,

• Pier 3 -- 21 Jun 2018,
• Pier 1 -- 12 Aug 2018,
• Pier 2 -- 21 Sep 2018,
• CP -- 16 Jan 2019 .
Since the submission and approval of the handing over documentation is mandatory for obtaining the
taking over certificate for each completion stage of the project, you are required to take the following
necessary actions with immediate effect:
a) Provide mitigation plan (revised forecast dates) for all delayed as-built drawings.
b) Provide revised submission plan for all balance as-built drawings in line with planned construction
completion dates.
c) Submit all balance as-built drawings for approval in an expeditious manner.
d) Resubmit any Code 3 or Code 4 as-built drawings if applicable.
Subject NAFFCO Continuous Ongoing Lack of Performance - Response to the Engineer's
Dear Sir,
In response to your letter {1) above, we hereby acknowledge receipt of the letter {2) confirming the
Contractor's commitment to achieving the 30 June 2019 substantial completion date in accordance
with the Target Programme to completion Rev 10.4. We reiterate that the Engineer has rejected the
Contractor's assertion that this programme is 'accelerated' in numerous previous correspondence.
The Contractor in the above correspondence (1) has stated "when assessed against the update of the
Rev 10.4 Programme as of 01 January 2018, there is no slippage in the final completion date of 30 June
2019, caused by the alleged delays in NAFFCO's performance."
We hereby record our observations against the planned progress of fire protection activities against
the Target Programme to Completion Rev 10.4.
As of 01 February 2018, the Contractor has failed to make any progress on several Fire Protection
System activities such as Fire Pipe Installation, Pressure Testing of Fire Pipes, Sprinklers Installation,
Fire Hose Cabinet Installation and Gaseous Suppression System Installation. We further observed that
many of the above delayed activities total float values have dropped below 30 Days as per the
Contractor critical activity definition in Rev 10.4.
We also record that the primary cause of these delays is the lack of coordination, delay in material
procurement and the shortage of resources from the Contractor and its Subcontractors as highlighted
during the weekly meetings.
Subject CSCEC- China State Acceleration Claim- Engineer's Interim Assessment
Dear Sir,
Please find attached the Engineer's letter (1) dated 13th March 2018 reference MTC-CMA-TCA-0401LTR09153 wherein the Engineer provides a report for an Interim Assessment of CSCEC's Acceleration Costs,
and in relation to CSCEC's acceleration efforts that were related to the steel roof structure for the
Central

Processor in the period from March 2015 to November 2015.
Accordingly, CSCEC is herewith requested to respond to the Engineer's Interim Assessment of CSCEC's
Acceleration Costs.
Yours faithfully,
