Subject:RE: Notification of Delay in Delivery of Glass due to Contractor TCAJV’s failure to arrange NOC
from the Employer ADAC
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced above (2), whereby you state that you have experienced
delays, allegedly due to our failure to arrange the required NOC’s for the areas in the vicinity of the
Runway and the Air Traffic Control (ATC) yard.
We categorically refute these assertions and remind you of your subcontract obligations in supporting
the Contractor in relation to the submission of any formal requests as per Subcontract Clause 10.1.6
[Right of Access to the Site]; this includes but is not limited to Health and Safety documentation and
formal requests for access.

Moreover, pursuant to Subcontract Clauses 10.1.3 [Right of Access to the Site] and 12.12.1 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 12.21.3c [Access Routes], you acknowledge of the fact that
the access to the Site will not be exclusive. Also you are aware that from time to time there are
constraints as to the areas of the Site to be made available to the Subcontractor and the rights of Other
Subcontractors to concurrently perform works. Therefore, pursuant to the mentioned Clauses, you shall
not be entitled to make any claim for additional Time and Cost incurred as a result of such constraints.
In this instance, our Construction Team has highlighted your failure in providing updated Lifting Plans
and Method Statements for the aforementioned areas – please ensure these are submitted upon
receipt of this letter to guarantee the uninterrupted progression of future works.
In addition and by your own acknowledgement, your email correspondence (from Mr. Tauseef – 2.1.19)
contained within your letter refers to the removal of glass which required repainting. These rectification
works are borne from your own failure to undertake thorough quality inspections during production and
therefore the resulting delays are a consequence of your inability to adequately manage this process.
In light of the above, we regret to inform you that your notice is hereby rejected as we conclude that
your letter appears speculative and devoid of your own contributing actions and/or inaction. It is
deemed that you have not taken all reasonable steps necessary to avoid or mitigate the
abovementioned delays as per Subcontract Clause 16.5 [Extension of Subcontract Time for Completion].
Should you insist on pursuing this matter you will be required to comprehensively demonstrate your
entitlement under the provisions of the Subcontract Agreement and provide all necessary substantiation
for our verification.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will continue to carry out all future works
diligently with due expedition. We now consider the above matter closed.

Yours faithfully,
