Subject The Subcontractor's Misinterpretation in respect of the Provision of Cranage
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1} and (2) wherein the Subcontractor, on one hand,
acknowledges that it requested payment to the Contractor for cranage not used on the Project and, on
the other, requests the Contractor rents on its behalf two mobile cranes. In addition to this, in both
letters
the Subcontractor, whilst referring to Event No. 27 in its Extension of Time No.2 submission, reiterates
its
claim that all crane related expenses incurred on the Project are not within its scope of work. To be
clear:
Clause 2.1.3 of Appendix E [Scope of Subcontract Works for Precast Bridges Work Package] of the
Instructions to Tenderers states that the Contractor would provide tower cranage 'in accordance with
site
logistics plan as and when available and within load capacities. The crane time will be scheduled on a
day
to day basis and the Subcontractor will be required to plan their works to suit'. Further, Clause 4.2.55 of
Appendix E states that the Subcontractor would 'provide adequate mobile cranaqe for the Subcontract
Works for the offloading and horizontal movement of materials at times when the Main Contractor's
facilities are not available to the Subcontractor'.
If, as it now asserts, the Subcontractor relied on the tower cranes being provided when required rather
than when available, then the Subcontractor misinterpreted Clause 2.1.3, Clause 4.2.55 and related
provisions of the Letter of Award Documents. The usage noted in the Tower Crane Layout Drawings
coupled with the caveats set down in both Clause 2.1.3 and Clause 4.2.55, ought to have alerted the
Subcontractor to take a more prudent view and to allow in the Subcontract Price for 'all cranage,
horizontal and vertical transportation' as stated in Appendix A.1 [Scope of Subcontract Works], Section
2,
paragraph 2.1 9.
Moreover, and contrary to what it now claims, the Subcontractor did include in the Subcontract Price for
the on-Site cranage necessary for the installation of the precast units. This is apparent from the
Subcontractor's submitted Tender; in particular the Bill of Quantities, which in Bill No. 2 (Bill 2/A/3}
includes the sum of AED 8,200,000 against Item A [Cranes for production yard and site installation] .
Consistent with this is the note in both the 'Form of Tender' submitted by the Subcontractor on 07 April

Subject RE: Reminder of Delay in Issuing a Work Permit for the Scissor Lift Manufactured to Install GRC
Panels
Yours faithfully,
