Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0275
Delays to our Mechanical Commissioning Activities due to Obstructions by the Employer’s Other
Contractor (M/s Cloisall) located at L2.0 Downtown Arcade
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The events described in Annex A hereto, concern acts of prevention on the part of the Engineer /
Employer’s Other Contractor delaying completion of our Mechanical Commissioning Activities to L2.0
Downtown Arcade.
Potential Impact
Acts of prevention on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Background
By way of our e-mail dated 18 March 2020 [1:51 PM] we notified you that we were forced to suspend
our Mechanical Commissioning Activities to AHU-CS-LB.1-09 to the L2.0 Downtown Arcade as a
consequence of a “major accessibility issue” concerning the Variable Air Volume (VAV) system, owing to
the works of the Employer’s Other Contractor (Cloisall) obstructing the ceiling access door location with
their containment / supports; thus the VA is not accessible. The photographs attached to our e-mail
refers (see Figure 1 below):

Figure 1
Various discussions have taken place since then in order to try to resolve matters; this is reflected in our
further e-mail dated 25 March 2020 [4:17 PM], including considering relocating the access door and
related works in lieu of removing the conduits; albeit it was evident that some of the conduits would
need relocating.
However, it soon transpired that further problems were encountered; where it was found that Cloisall
had installed low level conduits that were in fact blocking the existing ceiling access doors [as shown in
Figure 1 above] and must be relocated. Our further e-mail dated 25 March 2020 [Wednesday 4:34 PM]
refers.
Despite informing you that we are prevented from completing our MCA works due to Cloisall’s actions
and/or activities, as described above either in person or via our numerous emails (copies attached to
Annex B hereto for your information), we put on record, that to date, there has not been any resolution
to this issue. As a result, this act of prevention on the part of yourselves and / or the Employer’s Other
Contractor has both delayed and disrupted the progress of our Works and is preventing us from
completing Commissioning.
Accordingly we maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2
and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time for
Completion and the associated costs arising from the acts of prevention on your part / the Employer’s
Other Contractor.
We therefore request your urgent action to resolve the matters noted above in order to mitigate delay
and/or disruption to the Works. This may take the form of instructing the Employer’s Other Contractor
to urgently complete their works and also relocate their conduits; thereby enabling us to complete our
Commissioning.
Meanwhile, the noted delay will invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone
MS09B. Similarly, this has the potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e.
Milestone
Yours faithfully,
