Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0150
Late / Unreasonable Status Code 3 Response to DS/0401/10837 Rev. 03 – Low Level Design Document
Intelligent Video Analytics (IVA) – Employer’s Request for Further Development of IVA Design and Full
Study – Request for EI and VO
Dear Sir
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described in
Annex A may cause delay and/or disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern potential delays to the Works due to the Employer’s Request
for further development of IVA Design / Full Study outlined in the response to MS/0401/10837 Rev. 03.
Potential Impact

Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 24 April 2019, we in conjunction with the specialist Airport Security Systems subcontractor, ATLAS,
submitted Document Submittal No. MS/0401/10837 Rev.03, seeking your approval of the Low Level
Design Document Intelligent Video Analytics (IVA) for the Project. This was initially responded to by you
on 20 July 2019, followed by a further response from the Employer on 8 August 2019; both of which
were classified Status Code 3 ‘Revise and Resubmit’; in the manner shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Date submitted Submittal Ref Rev
Description of Contents Response due per Section 013300
Response received
Status Code
Overdue By (Calendar Days)
24-Ap-10
MS/0401/10837
03
Low Level Design Document Intelligent Video Analytics
[Document No MTB-MSI-LLD-IVA-001 Rev. 03] 01-May-19
Initial Response
20-Jul-19
3
80 days
Further Response
08-Aug-19
3
99 days
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our Submittals. On the basis that Document Submittal No:
MS/0401/10837 was at Rev. 03, then this ought to have been responded to within 7 calendar days.
However, Table 1 shows that you exceeded this contractually based review period in respect of both
responses by 80 and 99 calendar days. At this stage of the project, this is wholly unacceptable
While we received an initial set of ten comments from you on 20 July 2019, we are particularly alarmed
at receiving the Employer’s subsequent comments on 8 August 2019, which reads as follows:
‘The LLD shall be submitted after selection of the proper cameras for each feature in the mentioned
locations below: PROHIBITED PARKING Car Lanes & Curb Side area (outside) of LO.O & L2.0 Is required
with a 10 minutes' grace period set. VIP Parking is not required. WRONG DIRECTION Customs Area
(LO.O) needs to be included, (Exit from the baggage reclaim area}, this required from Customs. Other
proposed areas are Car Lanes and Curb side LO.OIL2.0 and L2.0 VIP parking Wrong direction people:
Immigration areas (LO.O and L2.0) OVER CROWDING Meet & Greet area of both Departure (L2.0) &
(LO.O) Arrival to be included. Passenger circulation area before the transfer screening in L3 need to be
included. Passenger Circulation area in Duty Free area of L2. 0 to be Included. Immigration & Screening
area is required. Check in queuing to Immigration area is required need to cover the area just before the
check ln. LEFT LUGGAGE Check In Areas & Departure areas until the Immigration gates needs to be
covered (Immigration areas not required, L2. OJ Arrival Area (meeting & greeting area, LO. OJ to be
Included. Curb side & Car lanes is not required. VIP Parking is not required. TRIP WIRE feature shall be
feature shall be implemented for Datacenters, MCR 1 & MCR 2. Access doors from Airside to Landside
within the building needs to be covered. Access doors from Apron to building needs to be covered. Only
above points to be covered. PEOPLE COUNTING feature is not required. Please note that: Contractor
shall resubmit the LLD again after the selection of proper camera in each area we are expecting the ISAT
to be done again after the installation of IVA license done.’

In short: we have undertaken to complete the IVA in accordance with the IFC design. We have only ever
received limited information through the VSS Schedule as to what IVA functionality is needed for some
cameras. We have followed this and set up the camera system accordingly. However, according to the
above comments, the Employer is now requesting us to do a full study and then allocate the appropriate
IVA function to the cameras as per the study. This is not for us to do; it is the responsibility of the
Employer’s Design Consultant. He is after all, employed by the Employer to undertake the design for and
on behalf of the Employer, not us.
It is however clear that the above requirement is additional to our Contract and is out with not only our
scope, but that of the specialist Airport Security Systems Subcontractor. In fact, ATLAS have already
written on this by letter dated 9 September 2019 (ref: 2) and advises of the following:
“… the Employer's request to develop the missing IFC IVA design drawings and related schedule,
although executed through the selection of the proper camera in terms of model, installation location
and field of view, within the ones available in the VSS consolidated design it is not comprised [sic, should
read: ‘not contained’] in the Subcontractor current Scope of Work as per the Conditions of the
Subcontract and, where confirmed in writing by a formal Contractor Instruction, constitutes a
Variation.”
SAA8 laid down mandatory procedures to be followed if additional works are required, and you have
failed to follow these; an EI and VO are needed for us to proceed with the aforementioned changes.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:
The overdue response to Document Submittal No: MS/0401/10837 was at Rev. 03 coupled with the
unreasonable Status Code 3 comment issued by you / the Employer and the Employer’s request for us
to undertake further development of IVA Design and further studies will severely delay our / ATLAS’s
ability to complete the Airport Security Systems for the Project. This will affect our ability to complete
testing and commissioning; and resultantly invariably impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone
MS09B, and may also prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
