Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0205
Changes Introduced to our Works associated with the installation of CO2 Fire Extinguishers to all
Energised Rooms – Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order to integrate
Variation / Change into Works
Dear Sirs,

Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern changes introduced to our works by the Employer’s Fire
Safety Consultant (Profire) associated with the requirement to install CO2 Fire Extinguishers to all
Energised Rooms, and requires a valid EI and VO in order for us to integrate the same into the Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 11 December 2019, a Mechanical Work Completion Inspection (MCI) of the Fire Suppression Systems
was undertaken by the Employer’s Fire Safety Consultant (Messrs Profire). Their Inspection Report ref:
191210-PF-IR-34451-GM dated 11 December 2019 addressed to the Employer (ADAC) [copy attached
hereto], identified a limited number of ‘Findings’. This included but was not limited to the following
comments in relation to the fire extinguishers in energised rooms located at various sectors at CP Pier 4
Level 1.0:
“9. Installation of fire extinguisher not complied with as per NFPA 10 sec-6.4.1 minimum requirements.
Fire extinguisher with class Crating shall be required where energized electrical equipment can be
encountered, provide fire extinguisher [to] all Energized Rooms, and electrical closet: [comment is NOT
limited all Energized Rooms, and electrical closet. UPS/BAT, SCR & ELV, EMD, ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION
and LV SWITCHGEAR ROOM] Refer below room.” [bold added and underlined for emphasis]
Given that Profire’s request to provide fire extinguishers to all energised rooms (i.e. Electrical Closets,
IT/Telecommunications Closets, Satellite Communication Rooms (SCR), Main Communication Rooms
(MCR), LV Switchgear, Substations, EMD, UPS / Battery, Electrical Closets and Generator energised
rooms), is additional to what has been requested by you via previous RFI responses (described below),
then Profire’s comments represents an attempt at introducing change to the Works by instructing us to
install fire extinguishers to all energized rooms;. We further note is a change to our scope of works as
explained below.
There are three types of portable, hand-carried fire extinguishers described in Specification Section
104416 (‘Fire Extinguishers’); namely: (A) Multipurpose dry chemical type; (B) Class K extinguishing
agent; and (C) Carbon Dioxide extinguishing agent, albeit only the ‘Multipurpose dry-chemical type’ was
shown in the IFC Drawings [including an IFC layout of their specific locations on the Project].
It is for this reason [that the remaining types: (B) ‘Class K extinguishing agent’ and type ‘(C) Carbon
Dioxide extinguishing agent’ are not shown on the IFC Drawings] that we raised RFI/0401/15643 on 28
January 2018, requesting further clarifications from you as to the requirements for the same, and with
reference to the various attachments appended thereto, requested you to provide revised IFC Drawings
showing each of their respective quantities and locations on the Project (Figure 1 refers):
Figure 1 – Extract from RFI/0401/15643

We received your response to RFI/0401/15643 on 22 February 2018 wherein you addressed items ‘2’
and ‘3’ raised by us, stating the following:
“2) Type K extinguishers to be used in all Kitchens.
3) CO2 extinguishers to be used in all Electrical
Closets, IT/Telecommunications Closets, SCR’s MCR’s.”
Your response to RFI/0401/15643 as shown above did not fully address the matter and also failed to
provide any IFC Drawings as requested. Additionally, you stated that CO2 fire extinguishers shall be
used only in specific energised rooms, these being the Electrical Closets, IT/Telecommunications Closets,
SCRs and MCRs energised rooms only. For this reason, we sought further clarification from you by
raising RFI/0401/16409 on 20 August 2018 stating the following (Figure 2 refers):
Figure 2 – Extract from RFI/0401/16409
With RFI/0401/16409, we requested you to provide:
•
IFC Drawings showing the exact locations and quantities of Type k fire extinguishers; and
•
IFC Drawing showing the exact locations and quantities of the CO2 fire extinguishers at the
specific energised rooms listed in your response to RFI/0401/15643 (i.e. electrical closets, IT /
telecommunication closets, SCRs and MCRs).
We requested a response to RFI/0401/16409 by 28 August 2018. However, you failed to reply until 41
calendar days later on 8 October 2018, wherein the Employer’s Design Consultant (KPF) stated the
following (Figure 3 refers):
Figure 3
Notably, KPF clarified that “…contractor to provide Type K extinguishers in all kitchen areas with cooking
equipment…” and referred us to the attached list thereto enumerated as ‘ATTACHMENT TO RFI-16409
RESPONSE’, which provided a “list of rooms with cooking equipment as directed by ADAC”. KPF also
noted that “…Fire extinguishers to be temporarily wall mounted by the contractor at the units back wall.
(As these spaces are currently with no fit-out works) …”
In regards to the CO2 fire extinguishers, KPF clarified and listed once again the energised rooms wherein
CO2 fire extinguishers shall be installed, i.e. the “Electrical Closets, IT/Telecommunications Closets, SCR,
MCR”. Additionally, ADAC’s response to RFI/0401/16409 states (Figure 4 refers):
Figure 4
In summary, ADAC’s statement appears to put to question the IFC Design and the Contract Documents
in regards to the Fire Extinguishers and explains that for the Type K extinguishers “Unfortunately the
tenant design for such kitchen areas are undefined at this moment in time, therefore KPF should advise
TCAJV in this RFI response on how to meet the design intent for this IFC requirement including but not
limited to, defining temporary locations for the FE’s”.
In view of the above, we put on record that none of your abovementioned RFI responses provided the
requested IFC Design / Drawings regarding the Fire Extinguishers. In addition, your responses advised
that the CO2 extinguishers must be installed to some, and not to all energised rooms, i.e. the Electrical
Closets, IT/Telecommunication Closets, SCR and MCR energised rooms only. The IFC Drawings along
with your RFI responses failed to specify the installation of fire extinguishers to the LV Switchgear,
Substations, EMD, UPS / Battery, electrical closets, SCR and generator rooms.
In summary therefore, it is evidently clear that the requirement to install CO2 fire extinguishers to all
energised rooms insisted upon by Profire constitute a change to the existing IFC requirements and thus
is variation to our original scope of work and accordingly an EI would be required to proceed.

As you know, SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and this appears
to have been ignored. Hence this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation
Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the express
requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above and will
continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
