Subject:

Dear Sir,

Engineer's Instruction No. 722A- Proposal- Required As-Built Drawing List

With reference to the above subject and EI-722A received via ref.1), and the Engineer’s request to
provide a ROM proposal for reduction in required as-built drawings, please be advised that the
reduction proposal was a joint study done by TCAJV and AECOM to facilitate Facility Management
requirements identified by ADAC minimum needs as below:
•
All compliance drawings are required - ADM Plumbing, ADSSC.
•
Maintainable assets drawings, .e.g. mechanical layouts and wiring detail – Single Line Schematic
Diagrams & panel drawings for all systems.
•
Architectural connection details (e.g. roof drains, facades, glazing panels, internal structure)
•
Levels of detail not in BIM from OEM drawings – Lifts, Escalators, PBB, HBSS, etc.
•
Life Safety information (e.g. cause & effect is sometimes issued as a drawing).
•
Load bearing & system capacities need to be identified.
•
Being able to navigate the drawings we receive is as important so we need a clear method of
categorization with suitable indexing.
Those needs represent the Facility Management needs towards a completed and operational facility,
which does not address all the As-Built scope. In fact the as-built drawings and documents do represent
the entire works that had been constructed, used, dismantled, or evolved, and those as-built drawings
were concluded, completed, and approved at various stages.
Essentially, the 43,746 shop drawings (total 77,907 minus required 34,161) were already completed and
submitted, and the fact that not all of the shop drawings will be re-submitted does not mean that they
were not produced or the effort of producing them can be saved. However, TCAJV can re-issue the same
drawings marked as as-built in digital copies to avoid unnecessary printing and waste of paper/ink; in
compliance with Estidama goals and letter ref.2).
Accordingly, we reaffirm that the as-built drawings are still considered at full amount of 77,907
drawings, but the proposed final number that will be re-submitted for FM purposes will be the 34,161 to
serve ADAC’s requirements.
For all purposes and intent the full magnitude of as-built documents will not be limited to that issued by
EI722, and that’s the reason behind letter ref.(3) being quoted as no Value Engineering in interim of
reduction is forecasted.
This is for your information and records.
Yours faithfully,
