Subject:

Dear Sir,

Re: Request for Engineer's Instruction [RFEI/0401/0724]
Door Clear Height Design Change, RFI/0401/16441 Response

We are in receipt of your letter referenced (2) above, wherein you rejected our letter referenced (1)
requesting you to issue an Engineer’s Instruction (EI), regarding the change of door height introduced via
RFI/0401/16441 dated 17th September 2018, which dropped to 2200mm from door clear height
2400mm.

Please note that we refute the content of your letter referenced (2) and inform you the following:
Bulletin 245 was issued by the Design Consultant to correct security and code deficiencies, regarding
incorrect hardware sets and operational requirements. The door heights for these specific doors were
never addressed in the door workshops. Door heights were most often changed due to briefing packs
which were unrelated to door workshops. Hence, your comments in your letter referenced (2) about
Bulletin 245 is not relevant with any of the issues mentioned about the doors in our letter referenced
(1).
You have also mentioned that “It is under the Contractor's obligations to highlight any such clashes prior
to fabrication of the doors”, which we refute. This is due to the fact that all clashes were indeed
highlighted by the Contractor and this was the main reason the numerous workshops were required, to
resolve these issues. Please be informed that EI 681F was issued for implementation after all the
discussions during the workshops and included information that superseded the previous information
issued by the Engineer regarding the door height. Hence, EI 681F was clearly instructing us to implement
and proceed with the door clear height 2400mm, which we did so.
In regards to your comment that it is our “responsibility to provide coordination drawings indicating
how work shown by different trades is interfaced”, we respond as follows:
•
We have only been provided with comments in the Door Schedule rev 31 on 21st March 2017
(Bulletin 245), without any drawings;
•
We note that you as the party in charge of the design, are responsible for Design coordination
with SACS, Fire Alarm, Power, and door functionality;
•
We also note that we have not been provided with adequate information that would enable us
to prepare any drawings as per your comments in your letter referenced (2) above;
•
The design needs to be complete and be provided by the Engineer prior to the Contractor
providing shop-drawings, which in this case it has not been completed yet. Doors do not require having
shop drawings for each door. The door schedule and the hardware schedule are the most detailed
information you can have for doors. As agreed during the workshops and numerous discussions, the
schedules which provide information for specific issues, supersede any drawings issued previously and
define how each door is fabricated;
•
We note that Door Schedule revision 32 and the related IFC drawings for fire, data and power
have not yet been provided. Furthermore, we also note the discrepancies between schedules which
have not been cleared and have to be resolved by the Engineer the soonest;
•
Coordination with other trades does not include design for the doors. The doors do not fall
under Performance Specifications. Responsibility for the Design of the works is identified under the
Contract and unless it is explicitly identified as a Performance Specification, the design is the
Engineer’s/Employer’s responsibility. Therefore, we require a clear design by the Employer/Engineer
regarding the doors.
•
Furthermore, SACS Types, Fire Alarm, Power must all be code compliant as well. As mentioned
above, the responsibility of the Design and consequently design compliance with the codes and Local

Authority requirements remains solely with the Engineer/Employer. Thus, as per the Contract, the
responsibility for code compliance for the doors, SACS and Fire Alarm lies with the Engineer.
In view of the above, we inform you that we are not able to prepare any shop-drawings without having
received all of the aforementioned from the Engineer.
Additionally, you are kindly reminded that e-notice “SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26, E-Notice No. – E0007 –
Discrepancies between Door Schedule Rev 31, SACS, Data and Power Provisions” and other
correspondences have been submitted previously, informing you about all of the aforementioned door
issues.
Your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction is required, failing which the works are
likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
We reserve our rights under the Contract pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 (Contractor’s Claims) to an
extension of the Time for Completion and additional Costs arising from the above described event.

Yours faithfully,
