Subject:RE: Variation Orders No. 19; Signed and returned
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced (1) above please find
our comments for each of your points in your letter respectively:
1.
Variation Order reference V0-19-SC/060 - Noted. The Variation Order is already in circulation for
signature.
2.
Variation Order reference V0-20-SC/060 - Engineering rates have been updated according to
Variation Order No. 01. The change management rates have been reissued to you with letter ref
MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000585 dated 9th September 2018.
3.
Variation Order reference V0-21-SC/060 - Please note that the price for Variation Orders No. 4
and 5 has been jointly agreed between the parties i.e. the Engineer/Employer, Contractor and
Subcontractor prior to entering into discussions for the exchange rates. Therefore, Variation Orders No.
4 and 5 are totally excluded from the exchange rate agreement and shall not be revised. Consequently,
the amount of Variation Order No. 21 shall not be revised either.
In addition to this, the Subcontract Price has been revised/updated after the issuance of Variation Order
No. 20, in which cumulatively, includes an allowance for the amount of Variation Order No. 21. Hence,
there will not be any change in the Subcontract Price after the issuance of Variation Order No. 21. You
are therefore requested to sign and return the copy of Variation Oder No. 21, at your earliest
convenience. Moreover, you are once again reminded to submit the signed Variation Order No. 4 and 5
as issued to you previously and as discussed above, in an urgent manner.
4.
Variation Order reference V0-22-SC/060 - Variation Order No. 22 will remain the same. We will
issue the rev.1 including the updated Subcontract Price. Please sign and return the copy.
5.
Variation Order reference V0-23-SC/060 - Please note that this issue with the quantity deletion
of the disruptive desk, has been raised to the Engineer and has been discussed with the Employer

previously. However, the Engineer did not change their position, therefore, there will be no price
update for Variation Order No. 23.
In view of the above, you are hereby requested to update the performance bond price accordingly, the
soonest. The adjusted Subcontract Price will be submitted to you with Variation Order No. 23.
We trust the aforementioned information and instruction are self-explanatory and you will carry out the
necessary actions accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
