
Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0136
Overdue Responses to 1,456 Shop Drawings as at 1 September 2019 including but not limited to
Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Ceiling, and Road Marking Shop Drawings etc. [issued
vide 534 Submittals]
Dear Sir
Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern potential delays due to your failure to respond to numerous
Shop Drawings Submittals within the review time expressly stipulated in the Contract.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.

Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
Between 12 December 2018 and 22 August 2019, we submitted 534 Shop Drawing Submittals
containing a total of 1,456 Shop Drawings in respect of twenty-one (21) different packages or disciplines
(including but not limited to Electrical, Mechanical, Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Public Address, Ceilings,
and Road Marking Shop Drawings] for your review and approval. These have been submitted on the
dates and in the manner recorded in the attachments included in Annex A1 and Annex A2 hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our submittals. On the basis that each of the Shop
Drawings Submittals and Shop Drawings listed in Annex A2 are shown to be between Rev. 00 and Rev. 2
and higher, then these ought to have been responded to by you 21, 14 and 7 calendar days later.
However, the information recorded in Annex A2 and summarised in Annex A1 shows that at the cut-off
date associated with this E-Notice (which is 1 September 2019), you exceeded, and at that point
continued to exceed the review periods expressly stipulated in the Contract. The summary included in
Table 1 shows for example that your responses to the Fire Fighting and Road Marking Shop Drawing
Submittals are late and overdue by upwards of 180 and 242 calendar days respectively.
The more you prolong the review and approval of our Shop Drawings listed in Annex A2, the more likely
this will impact our ability to complete the remaining Works and / or testing and commissioning, which
will in time, invariably impact our ability to achieve Substantial Completion.
Yours faithfully,
