Subject Internal Glazing Works Lack of Performance
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to our letter referenced (4) and your Monthly Report No. 67 for the period
ending March 2018 referenced (1), which includes the updated Programme to Completion as of 1 April
2018 and Target Programme Rev 10.4 (Clean-up as of 1 February 2018). The Engineer hereby raises
concerns over the lack of performance of AI Ghurair in the Central Processor, Piers, and all
Gate houses.
One of the main purposes that the Contractor was requested to introduce the Clean-up programme
(01 February 2018) was to align the forecast dates and t o mitigate the impact of delays for certain
trades. The Programme shows slippage to all type of works pertaining to the delivery and construction
(Refer to Attachment-1), such as but not limited to AI Ghurair's scope of works for Glazing (Glass
Screen, Glazing Pavilion, Glass Wall Lining), Toilet Compartment, and Utility Wall, as well as other
activities not included in the programme, such as the Light Box and the Equipment band.
The slow progress of AI Ghurair's scope of work has resulted in a negative impact on the programme,
since the Glass Screen works is on the second critical path for Pier 4. The Engineer raises its concern
that ongoing delays may not be recovered by the next monthly update as previously notified (5).
The Engineer records that, Abu Dhabi Civil Defense No Object Certificate (NOC) is planned to be issued
on 9 August 2018 for Pier 4 and all the work related to AI Ghurair has to be completed prior to the
start of the Civil Defense inspection process. This allows only 3 months from the date of t his letter yet
the relevant material has not yet been delivered to site.
We note that despite the issuance of Notices pursuant t o Clause 12.10.1 of the Conditions of Contract,
the Contractor has not adhered to its commitment that it will manage its Subcontractor as required
under the Contract, and that decisive actions have been taken to rectify its progress (ref.
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/010779 dated 07 June 2017). Furthermore, we note that Assa Abloy which was
appointed in order to mitigate AI Ghurair's delays is also under performing.
The late delivery of material has negatively impacted the installation works by AI Ghurair (refer to
Attachement-2) and subsequently impacted the succeeding commissioning activities and the target
interim completion dates. The lack of progress has been discussed in the Weekly Progress Meetings
with the Contractor.
Accordingly, the Contractor is hereby requested to submit its Mitigation Plan detailing the measures
proposed to be adopted to mitigate the slippage that has occurred and to eliminate any knock-on

effect on the target completion dates. The Contractor shall include in its mitigation measures the
defective items such as survey, procurement, and installation.
The Mitigation Plan shall be submitted not later than one week from the date of receipt of this letter
and upon agreement with the Engineer, the Contractor shall incorporate the same in the next
programme update.
We remind the Contractor that it is solely responsible for all the delays incurred to date by its
Subcontractor's lack of performance and we hereby reserve the Employer's rights under t he Contract.
Subject:
Wall System

Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-to-

Dear Sir,
In continuation to our meetings regarding the above subject matter and our letter referenced (1) above,
we place on record that there has not been any official response to our mentioned letter and the matter
is still currently ongoing without a resolution. Therefore, to provide clarity on this matter, we have
summarised the main points of our letter referenced (1), in an effort to resolve this matter to enable us
to proceed with the works without delay. The detailed history of events has already been provided via
our letter reference (1), therefore we hereby provide a summary of the main points of our mentioned
letter.
It is noteworthy to reiterate that the responsibility for the Design of the works and consequently design
compliance with the codes and Local Authority requirements remains solely with the
Engineer/Employer. During the Tender we had limited information with respect to the type of the fire
rated ceilings and to date there is no Specification available for a 2 hour fire rated ceilings in the
Contract Documents.
During the Tender the Engineer via Tender Queries 12 Tender Bulletins 01 to 18, specified GYB-01
(regular non-fire rated gypsum board) to be used in egress passageways. Moreover, the Engineer stated
that “fire rated ceiling areas are defined in G-04 set” wherein there is no such information available in G04 drawings. The Engineer also stated that “rated ceilings at egress passageways (Rated GYB-01 ceilings
to be issued at a later date)”.
After the submission of BAFO, on May 2012 the Engineer issued the revised Tender Drawing (IFT) MTC A
62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 D_ dated 24 May 2012 inclusive of the detail (Detail No 8) for the required
properties of the Fire Rated Ceiling in the egress passageways. The drawing indicated GYB-04 gypsum
board which was in contradiction to the previous comments made on the Tender Bulletins, wherein you
specified GYB-01.
Kindly be informed that, as at the date of this letter, there is also a contradiction on the IFC drawings,
wherein IFC drawing ref. MTC A 62 TB_L_ _ _ _ 00.640 00 shows GYB-04 (fire resistant gypsum board)
but the legend of the current IFC ceiling plans (A-42 series) still shows the ceilings as GYB-01 which is a
regular non-fire rated gypsum board.

It is also noteworthy that via RFVO/0401/1325-SC/039/B Rev. 00 dated 23 January 2018 we have
mutually agreed in principle on a Variation to include gypsum LID system, incorporating top and bottom
fire rated gypsum boards in various areas in the project.
Please note that the new the system provided by the Engineer (Detail no.8 in Drawing MTC_A-62 _B_L_
_ _ _ 00.640(00)), has no cross reference of this section in the IFC ceiling drawings. Additionally, after
investigating the matter we are of the opinion that the referred section cannot be considered a fire
rated ceiling system from both sides due to the fact that it has exposed framing structure in the ceiling
void which does not meet the Civil Defence Requirements. Furthermore, UAE Fire & Life Safety Code of
Practice item 35.2, does not permit a 'hanging system' for such a fire rated ceiling from top. In addition
to the above our opinion is based on the below facts:
i.
There is no certification available for a horizontal shaft wall system to be used as a rated ceiling
system;
ii.
This type of system is not available from any manufacturer in UAE;
iii.
The IFC configuration shows a hanging system with the fire direction from the bottom which is
not valid for fire direction from the top;
iv.
GYB-04 horizontal shaft wall ceiling system is shown in IFC drawings. This system is from USG
and listed in their brochure. USG website mentions that this system is not UL tested. This system
considers the fire direction from the corridor side and there are limitations to the width of the system.
In view of the above points you are kindly requested the following:
i.
Provide certification for the requested system to be used as a rated ceiling system;
ii.
Advise of a manufacturer in UAE that can provide the system requested;
iii.
Kindly advise on point (iv) above.
We respectfully request you to issue an Engineer’s instruction and revised Drawings and/or Specification
and advise on the issues raised above and in our letter referenced (1) to avoid further delays.
At this juncture, we reserve all of our rights derived under the Contract and inform you that we will not
be held liable for any delays in regards to this matter.
Yours faithfully,
