
Dear Sir,
This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute a variation. The nature and extent of the Variation is provided below.

'A centralized cooling plant is to be constructed above Ras Bu Abboud Switchbox to serve the stations
Souq Waqif, Qatar National Museum, Ras Bu Abboud and Ras Bu Abboud Stabling Yard'.
Further, this instruction amends the Employer's Requirements as set out in the Appendix A - 'Centralized
Cooling Plant'. The Contractor is also required to extract the information as appropriate from Qatar Cool
Energy Transfer Station's Technical Guide (Appendix 8).
Dear Sir,

This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute a variation. The nature and extent of the variation is provided below.

The Employers Requirements Volume 6, Sub-Clause 11.4.6.25 b) currently state that:

"Based on these calculations, the minimum clear width of such passageways, whether elevated or
underground, shall be no less than 10 m. This does not include areas of low mobility near to vertical
surfaces such as walls, railings or balustrades. For these areas, an additional width of 0.25 m must be
deducted per surface from the overall width to arrive at the absolute clear width for the passageway."

Volume 6, Sub-Clause 11.4.6.25 b) is now amended:
To reflect an optimization outcome where the minimum clear width of passageways whether elevated
or underground is reduced to 6.80 meters (excluding event stations).

The potential minimum width allowable at each station is as shown in Attachment A, Summary Table of
Required Passageway Widths, attached to this Instruction. Contractor is to note that:
•

This does not include for finishes which should be assumed as +1.0m

•

Width of passageway is the clear width between the two (2) clad facades of the passageway

•
Width of walkway is the usable width of the walkway between the two (2) travellators or the
travellators and the wall - depending upon layout.
Stations where the minimum width has already been agreed with Other parties or where design and
construction may have advanced to the stage where reverting minimum width is no longer feasib le,
shall be considered on a case by case basis.

Contractor is instructed to implement the requirements to ensure the best possible optimization in
design and installation is carried out and provide the response in accordance with Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of
the Conditions of Contract.

Yours faithfully,
