Subject: RE: Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0180
Engineer’s Response to RFI/0401/17582 – Introduction of Galvanised Steel Plates to North and South
Pavilions – Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order to integrate
Variation / Change into Works
Dear Sirs,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of our E-Notice No. 0180 (ref: 2) in which you allege
that we are somehow responsible for the provision of galvanised steel plates to both the North and
South Pavilions and are not entitled to a Variation [and additional time].
For the reasons comprehensively set out in our letter ref: (2) we disagree.
We remind you that further to the Mechanical Works Completion Inspection (MCI) held on 22 October
2019, we raised RFI/0401/17582 Rev. 00 on 5 November 2019, in confirmation of M/s Profire’s
comments endorsed on WIR Number PF MCI-SUP-191022-CP L2.0 TO L3.0 CS-10 advising us “to add
steel checkered plates above the entire grating area at the north pavilion”. We recorded that a similar
inspection to the south pavilions were carried out by Ms/ Profire, with no comments whatsoever; hence
no requirement for any checkered plate.
We sought your further advice on how we were expected to address the above disparity in the two
inspections, and in the event the checkered plate was required, then we asked that you provide revised
IFC Drawings reflecting the Employer’s requirements for both Pavilions.
We then received an advance response to RFI/0401/17582 on 19 December 2019 informing us
“Contractor to provide galvanized steel plate underneath the grating area of North and South pavilions
to provide a ceiling for up-right sprinkler operation.” This was followed by a formal response on 4
December 2019, in which the Employer’s Design Consultant states:
“… per ADAC-AHJ & HOE, the areas where the grating is located need to be comply with NFPA hence
ceiling to be provided accordingly. However, to minimize works on site and to assist contractor with site
progress, KPF and ADAC-AHJ would accept closing the grating between the light fittings with thin
galvanized steel plate instead of creating a full floor …”

As noted in E-Notice No. 0180 (ref: 2), given that the works at the North and South Pavilions have
already been completed based on IFC Drawings and approved Shop Drawings, then the above
requirements represents an unequivocal change in design and scope. This warrants provision of revised
IFC Drawings reflecting the Employer’s changed requirements; and that we require an Engineer’s
Instruction/variation Order if such works are to be undertaken.
That said, in rejecting our E-Notice No. 0180 and our request for an EI / VO, you have sought to reply on
the purported non-compliance with NFPA 13, Clause 8.6.4.1.1.1, as means of alleging we are not
entitled to a variation. However, this Clause actually refers to ‘Distance below Ceilings’ which for the
avoidance of doubt, is in fact, worded as follows:
‘Under unobstructed construction, the distance between the sprinkler deflector and the ceiling shall be
a minimum of 1 in. (25.4 mm) and a maximum of 12 in. (305 mm) throughout the area of coverage of
the sprinkler.’
In light of this, we fail to see the correlation between this and the requirement for us to provide “thin
galvanized steel plate” to the north and south pavilions. Unless expressly provided for in the Contract,
we are not responsible for the design of the Works; the Employer’s Design Consultant is. We are
however entitled to additional time and cost in circumstances where the Employer varies the design
(both the direct cost of the change as well as the cost of delays) such as in the instant matter and
detailed within letter ref: (2).
We therefore reiterate that until such time as you comply with the express requirements of SAA8
relating to change (and issue us with revised IFC Drawings and a covering EI / VO), we are unable to
proceed with implementing the additional works described above and will continue to proceed in
accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
