Subject: Subsidence- Jack of cla rity in specialist subcont ractor's method statement
Dear Sirs,
We refer to recent statements on your part, and repeated by the Employer, to the effect that the
Specialist Subcontractor carrying out the permeation grouting to your instruction, has not been using
the correct quantities of grout.
We were most surprised to learn of such accusations in a meeting with the Employer when our teams
have been working in daily physical and !iterative contact. Having checked the daily site reports that
are issued and signed by your representative, it can be clearly seen that data in respect of time,
location, pressures and quantity of injected grout are recorded. Similarly Work Inspection Records
have been issued and signed off over the past three months.
Had there been any doubt on your part as to any aspect ofthe Specialist's work then it was incumbent
upon your team to advise us to change our work method and/or to have not signed off as agreed &
accepted the daily site reports and WIR. We in any case refute any such accusations and confirm that
all Works are being executed in accordance with our Contract.
Upon reading the approved method statement issued by the Specialist Subcont ractor one can see
how it may be possible that persons not closely concerned with the past three mont hs' works could
have misinterpreted the approved daily reports and WIR. At Method Statement clause 6.15.1.4 there
is a conflict in respect of stated quantities of grout. "Design quantity of max. 300Ltr per grout valve
point" conflicts with "the Grout consumption per valve point is approx. 50-200Lts".

This dichotomy is explained by the fact that at 'block point s' within the TAM that are placed to ensure
that grout from lower, intermediate va lves, spreads hori zo ntally into the surrounding soil rather than
simply vertically along the outside of the TAM. These block points are formed by use of approximately
100 litres of grout prior-inject ed at the block points and allowed to cu re before the main injecting
process is commenced. Once cured (and blocked at these points) the process continues with the
specified criteria of either 5 bar or 200 litres of grout per valve. So it can be seen that at the block
points it is possible to record a total of up to 300 litres of grout, whereas at intermediate points only
up to 200 litres will be consumed.
We trust this now resolves any doubts raised in respect ofthe approved method statement and that
were contrary to joint records and Engineer's approval of WIR.
Yours faithfully
