Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0160 [post-SAA8]
Delays to Subsidence Rectification Works (Grout and Excavation Works) - Delayed Receipt of MTA
Contractor’s As-Built Drawings
Dear Sir,
Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0160 [post-SAA8]
Delays to Subsidence Rectification Works (Grout and Excavation Works) - Delayed Receipt of MTA
Contractor’s As-Built Drawings
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to our E-Notice No. 0160 issued by way of our letter ref: (1).

By way of reminder, our E-Notice No. 0160 notified you of delays to the soil rectification works and in
particular drew your attention to the fact following a review of multiple ‘For Construction’ Drawings
appended to each of the EIs / Bulletins referenced therein, we found that we were being directed to
either grout or excavate around the MTA Contractor’s (L&T) existing underground services. However,
none of the EIs of Bulletins included any corresponding As-Built MTA services drawings information.
In the event, despite issuing you with successive requests for us to be provided with L&T’s As-Built
drawings information in confirmation of the levels and coordinates of existing MTA utilities [to Pier 1],
and despite us notifying you vide letter (1) of the ramifications the absence of as-built drawings was
likely to have on the progress and completion of the Work, as at the date of preparing this notice (40
calendar days later), we have yet to be provided with L&T’s as-built drawings. We have however, been
provided a series of shop drawings in lieu. This is not what was requested and moreover fails to provide
accurate as-built information. In fact, a review of the information detailed on these shop drawings has
revealed numerous clashes between what purports to show the MTA utilities indicated on L&T’s shop
drawings and our own MTB utilities. We further record that the L&T shop drawings are also missing
information relating to various utilities to various MTB zones [not just Pier 1].
However, during a meeting on 26 November 2019 you informed us that you are not in possession of any
as-built drawings for the entire MTA infrastructure works. Accordingly, you directed us to utilise MTA
WIR / survey reports, in order to independently determine the as-built location of the existing MTA
utilities to Pier 1, as well as determine the location of the ‘missing’ L&T utilities information.
The MTA Work Inspection Requests (WIR) / survey reports are in effect hand-written documents and are
not in a format that could reasonably be used to establish critical as-built data and information.
Moreover, if we were to utilise such information, which we object to, what is to say this is inaccurate
also? This would result in a ‘trial and error’ situation in trying to determine as-built information and will
invariably delay the progress and completion of the sewer rectification works further still.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1,
that your on-going failure to provide us with as-built drawings information [plus confirm the missing
information] outlined herein, constitute acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract on the part of
the Employer/Employer’s Personnel/Consultants/Other Contactor giving rise to our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
We would also argue that we are under no obligation to “verify” the as-installed location of the MTA
Contractor’s existing utilities, and therefore if you continue to insist we do so absent the provision of asbuilt data from you / L&T, then it is arguable that this is tantamount to a ‘Variation’. In which case, we
further notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, that your directive
for us to undertake scanning and trial pits and the like, gives rise to our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(a); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 20.3.
Interim and / or final details of the Time impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price will be provided
in due course, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Meanwhile, a detailed description of the foregoing events and circumstances is included at Annex A.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write with reference to our E-Notice No. 0160 issued by way of our letter ref: (1).
Background

By way of reminder, our E-Notice No. 0160 notified you of delays to the soil rectification works and in
particular drew your attention to the fact following a review of multiple ‘For Construction’ Drawings
appended to each of the EIs / Bulletins referenced therein, we found that we were being directed to
either grout or excavate around the MTA Contractor’s (L&T) existing underground services. However,
none of the EIs of Bulletins included any corresponding As-Built MTA services drawings information.
Accordingly, we notified you that despite issuing you with successive request for us to be provided with
the MTA Contractor’s As-Built drawings information (such as the various emails cited in Table 2 to ENotice No. 0160 issued between 3 September 2019 and 10 October 2019), you failed to provide
essential design information (i.e. the as-built drawings information) in confirmation of the levels and
coordinates of existing MTA utilities [to Pier 1]. In which respect we gave notice that this prevention
affected our ability to verify the grout points and confirm whether the areas and works in question were
clash free or otherwise, and that absent this information, we were prevented from preparing Shop
Drawings for your approval and subsequently proceeding with the soil rectification works .
This Delay Notice
In the event, despite notifying you on 17 October 2019 vide (1), of this ‘act of prevention’ and the
ramifications this prevention was likely to have on the progress and completion of the Work, as at the
date of writing, i.e. 4 December 2019 (some 40 calendar days later), we have yet to be provided with
L&T’s as-built drawings identifying the location, levels and coordinates of their underground utilities.
We have however, been provided a series of shop drawings in lieu. This is not what was requested and
moreover fails to provide accurate as-built information of L&T’s existing utilities. We know this because
having uploaded the coordinates extracted from the L&T shop-drawings to our BIM model, has revealed
numerous clashes between what purports to show the MTA utilities indicated on L&T’s shop drawings
and our own MTB utilities; some indicative examples of which are shown in Figure 1 to Figure 5 below.
This would indicate that: (1) we have not been provided with the latest revision of L&T’s shop-drawings;
or (2), that L&T’s shop drawings are inaccurate; or (3), the MTA Contractor’s works have not been
constructed in accordance with what purports to be approved shop-drawings.
We further record that the L&T shop drawings are missing information, e.g. pipelines, manholes etc.
relating to various utilities to various MTB zones [not just Pier 1]. For example, some parts of the fire
pipeline and storm pipeline networks are missing in some sectors of the MTB as shown in Figure 6 to
Figure 9 below; while information pertaining to other utilities (e.g. chilled water, potable water,
telecommunications etc.) forming part of MTA infrastructure works appear to be missing also.
Additionally, from our interrogation of the L&T shop drawings we also draw attention to the fact that in
some areas the MTA utilities are considerably congested, which presents its own set out unique
challenges in terms of our ability in undertaking grouting as part of the sewer remediation works.
It is for the above reasons that we have continually urged you to provide the actual as-built drawings
from L&T showing the correct location, line, level and coordinates of the existing MTA utilities. In
addition to various e-mail requests such as those noted above, numerous meetings have been held,
attended by ADAC, AECOM, TCA JV, BAUER, NACO and L&T etc., where the various issues outlined above
have been explained to all concerned. This includes a presentation held on 26 November 2019 at which
we presented the BIM 3D model utilising the provided shop-drawings from L&T, and made you aware of
the various problems associated with your failure in providing us with L&T’s as-built drawings. A hard
copy of the ‘Subsidence Works affected by LARSEN & TOUBRO (L&T)’ presentation is attached hereto.
Also attached is a copy of our e-mail dated 26 November 2019 [6:07Pm], i.e. ref: (2) providing a succinct
summary of the various problems discussed and the outcome of the meeting.
In which respect, you have informed us that you are not in possession of any as-built drawings for the
entire MTA infrastructure works. We find this revelation incredulous. It is difficult to comprehend that

on a major airport project such as this, so complex, containing multiple utilities and services, no as-built
drawings for the MTA Contractor’s Works exist? We have to provide as-built drawings as part of our
obligations under the MTB Contract, so it is reasonable to assume that L&T would have to provide them
also under their Contract with the Employer. Nevertheless, you advised us during the meeting on 26
November 2019 that we are to utilise MTA Work Inspection Requests (WIR) / survey reports, in order to
independently determine the as-built location of the existing MTA utilities to Pier 1, as well as determine
the location of the ‘missing’ L&T utilities information described above.
The MTA Work Inspection Requests (WIR) / survey reports are in effect hand-written documents and are
not in a format that could reasonably be used to establish critical as-built data and information.
Moreover, if we were to utilise such information, which we object to, what is to say this is inaccurate
also? This would result in a ‘trial and error’ situation in trying to determine as-built information and will
invariably delay the progress and completion of the sewer rectification works further still. Plus we could
not nor would we accept any responsibility for any damage caused to L&T’s existing utilities.
In any event, if we are provided with the correct and accurate as-built information/data of the
coordinates and levels of the existing MTA utilities in an AutoCAD format and in the 3D manner of ‘X, Y
and Z’ elevations, then it would take us approximately four (4) weeks to convert this into the proper
version of BIM model and subsequently into shop-drawings, which would allow us to verify the MTA
infrastructure network and enable the commencement of the grouting works. However, if in the event
we are not provided with the correct and accurate 3D AutoCAD information/data as stated above, but
we are only provided with the handwritten WIRs as stated by you, and you continue to insist that we
utilise this information and instruct us, then this will take extremely enormous amount of time and
effort for us to convert this information/data into a proper BIM model and subsequently into shopdrawings for your review and approval. This whole process could take weeks or months.
It is for the various reasons outlined above that we urge you to verify and confirm the accuracy of L&T’s
shop-drawings and also provide us with accurate as-built drawings of the existing MTA utilities.
We remind you that this is not the first time we have brought your attention to the inaccuracy of the
MTA Contractor’s shop drawings, the various e-mails summarised in our E-Notice No. 0160 (ref: 1)
refers. These were first issued to you over two months ago, from 3 September 2019 onwards.
Meanwhile, we note that the MTA utilities infrastructure network around Pier 1 is significantly large and
complex and without the correct verified data, we are unable to proceed with grouting works and/or
even to commence with the grouting investigation at the area. The levels of pipes and exact coordinates
in the manner of ‘X, Y and Z’ elevations, is a prerequisite for our investigation to avoid any risk of
damaging the MTA utilities. Therefore, it is imperative that the required as-built drawings contain
accurate setting out information and the actual installation levels for all of the MTA utilities.
Consequently, your continued failure in providing us with MTA Contractor’s as-built utilities drawings is
delaying us in investigating whether the areas and works in question are clash free and also hinders us in
preparing and providing shop-drawings for the grouting works for your review and approval. This is
continuing to delay the completion of the subsidence rectification works at Pier 1 and by the same
token, the missing information to other areas, will impact the completion of these areas also.
Finally, we wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 14 November 2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA0401-LTR-11146) replying to our E-Notice No. 0160 (letter ref: 1), in which you make reference to you
issuing us the latest MTA shop drawings and requesting us to scan utilities and conduct trial pits to verify
the location of the MTA Contactor’s existing utilities prior to us drilling and excavating. For the reasons
noted above, this approach is inherently problematic and time consuming particularly the time that will
be required to convert this information into a proper BIM model and subsequently into shop-drawings
for approval prior to us actually undertaking the subsidence remediation works. We note your
insistence that we “proceed with the [subsidence rectification] works in accordance with the instructed

bulletins without any further delay”, yet the reality is we are and continue to be prevented from doing
so due to acts of prevention on your part, as well as on the part of others.
Your directive given at the meeting held on 26 November 2019 and later confirmed within your letter
dated 14 November 2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-11146) constitutes a change to our scope of
works an intended method of working and will result in us incurring additional time and cost. We
therefore request that you formalise your “request” by way of issuing us an Engineer’s Instruction.
In summary therefore, the delayed provision by you and / or the MTA Contractor (L&T) of critical asbuilt information in support of the coordinates and levels of the existing MTA utilities is preventing us
from verifying the required works and preventing us issuing all necessary Shop Drawings to you prior to
commencing the works on site. Similarly this is preventing us from proceeding with the requisite
subsidence remediation works (grouting and excavation works). We therefore urge you to insist that
the MTA Contractor provides this as-built information without further undue delay.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1,
that your on-going failure to provide us with as-built drawings information [plus confirm the missing
information] outlined above, constitute acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract on the part of
the Employer/Employer’s Personnel/Consultants/Other Contactor giving rise to our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of Contract.
We would also argue that we are under no obligation to “verify” the as-installed location of the MTA
Contractor’s existing utilities, and therefore if you continue to insist we do so absent the provision of asbuilt data from you / L&T, then it is arguable that this is tantamount to a ‘Variation’. In which case, we
further notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, that your directive
for us to undertake scanning and trial pits and the like, gives rise to our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(a); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 20.3.
Interim and / or final details of the Time impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price will be provided
in due course, pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
