Subject LDCS Windows Server Operating System 2008

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter (1) above concerning the non-compliant version of Windows
Server and Windows SQL Server installation for the LDCS solution.
We record that according to the Configuration Status Accounting document for LDCS (ref. MTB-0401LDCS-CSA-001 Rev 07), the Windows Server build is 6.0.6002 SP2 and SQL Server build is 10.0.2531.0
(SP1 released 31 March 2009). According to the Microsoft schedule, Windows 2008 reaches end of
support on 14 January 2020. This material is not approved for use on the Project. The Contractor's
AOS Subcontractor has proposed to upgrade the system to Windows Server 2012 without specifying
version or build. We note that Microsoft has announced that the Mainstream Support for this product
has ended on 10 September 2018. The Contractor should reconsider the value of updating to a
product which has already reached end of life. We note that the Contractor has subsequently
proposed to upgrade to Windows Server 2016 according to correspondence referenced (2) above.
According to the Microsoft schedule, SQL Server 2008 reaches end of support on 09 July 2019.
Although Extended Security Updates may be purchased beyond this date, the installed version is
ineligible for this programme since the latest service pack and cumulative updates have not been
installed. For the record, the build numbers shows that no security patches have been installed for
known vulnerabilities since 2009. This software has not been approved for the Project. The applicable
Material Approval with reference MS/0401/FC/0050 is for Microsoft SQL Server 2008 R2 software,
with build numbers starting 10.50. The Material Approval was reviewed as Code 2 with the comment
"Contractor shall provide the latest version of SQL that CUPPS/LDCS is certified on at the time of
deployment. This version of SQL is only accepted at this time because CUPPS/LDCS are not certified on
the later versions of SQL", this was to allow for the commencement of testing in the Integration Test
Facility. It is of concern that the Contractor has not rectified this deficiency in the three years which
have elapsed in the meantime.
Section 270500 Clause 2.7.B.1 states 1/AII software editions installed shall be the latest version
software package available and shall be fully tested." In consideration of the age of Windows Server
2012, the Contractor should review the proposed solution. We also note the requirement that the
proposed software editions shall be fully tested. The late delivery of the proposed software updates
does not relieve the Contractor from the obligation for complete testing of the solution. We record
that Section 270500 Clause 2.4.F applies:
New software and hardware upgrades shall first be demonstrated and tested on a separate Test
Platform;
1. The tests shall demonstrate the readiness of new software, corrected software, software
upgrades, hardware configuration changes and hardware upgrades.
2. Once the tests have passed successfully, the required changes shall be implemented, taking
into account the current/applicable change/version management procedures.
The Contractor's AOS Subcontractor has stated that this upgrade can happen only in Q4 of 2019 with
no impact on the terminal operations. The Contractor has failed to provide any justification why this
upgrade cannot be performed during the project schedule. Should the AOS Subcontractor require to
execute a major upgrade after the completion of the project testing and commissioning activities in
order to meet specifications , it is required to perform regression testing. This regression testing shall
be performed for applicable test cases from SFAT/ISAT; Site Integration Tests; Security penetration
Tests and Performance Test to validate no impact on the fur:~ctionality according to the MSI Master
Test Plan . Relevant documents not limited to the System Design Documents, Interface Control
Documents, O&M Manuals and Training documents shall be updated. Additional training shall be
provided if applicable.
We advise to implement the upgrade during the project lifecycle, ideally prior to commencement of
the Performance Test phase. The statement regarding impact on terminal operations is also not

justified, however MSI Change Management Processes shall be followed to minimize the technical
risks of this change. The impact to terminal operations shall further be mitigated through full
coordination with any activities planned at that time. The MSI team and the AOS Subcontractor shall
be available to perform these works at a time convenient to the Employer at no cost to the Employer.
The Contractor is advised to take immediate mitigation measures and all necessary actions to expedite
the delivery, configuration and testing of a compliant server operating system and SQL database
software without further delay.
We hereby reserve the Employers' rights under Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of Contract for any
damage the Employer may incur as a result of the Contractor's slow progress.
Yours faithfully,
