
Subject: Notice of Dissatisfaction with the Engineer's Determination (Clause 11.4) - load
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes in response to the Engineer's letter reference (1) above, whereby the Engineer
has insisted that the Contractor shall proceed to give effect to the Engineer's determination and comply
with Engineer's Instruction (EI) No.580, notwithstanding the Contractor's contention that the Engineer's
determination issued via the letter reference (3) is voidable.
In its letter reference (2) above, the Contractor has established its position that the Engineer's
determination issued via the letter reference (3) is voidable based on the grounds that: the
determination is inappropriate; the determination creates an unavoidable conflict with the Contract;
and the determination does not comply with Clause 11.4 [Determinations]. Moreover, the Contractor
has stated that it would not be able to proceed with the varied works instructed under El No.580, until
and unless the Engineer has clarified the Contractor's concerns and issued an appropriate determination
on the disagreement related to El No.580. The Contractor notes that the Engineer neither has clarified
the concerns nor has issued an appropriate determination on the disagreement, except stating that "the
Contractor's assertion that the determination is inappropriate is rejected". However, the Engineer has
not given any reasons as to why it was rejected.
The Contractor does not agree with the Engineer's assertion that "the Contractor has given no valid
reasons for rejecting an instruction of the Engineer" as the Contractor has not rejected the El No.580.
The , Contractor has only requested the Engineer, in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1.4 (b) of the
Conditions of Contract, to provide a formal confirmation of Variation or issue an Engineer's instruction
and revised Drawings and/or Specification pursuant to Sub-Clauses 11.3.3 and 20.1.1 (a) of the
Conditions of Contract, as the Contractor considers that El No.580 clearly constitutes a Variation. Since
the Engineer has continued to reject the Contractor's request for a Variation, the Contractor has
requested the Engineer to make a fair determination on the disagreement, which is whether El No.580
constitutes a Variation or does not, in accordance with Sub-Clause 11.4.1 [Determinations) of the
Conditions of Contract. As such, the Contractor has been acting within the provisions of the Contract,
thereby the Contractor rejects the Engineer's statement that "we hereby reserve the Employer's rights
for any delays which may occur as a result of the Contractor's non-compliance". Contrariwise, the
Contractor considers that the Engineer has prevented the Contractor from implementing the varied
works by not issuing an appropriate Engineer's instruction and thereafter, not issuing an enforceable
determination in timely manner. Please be advised that, the Contractor has first requested the Engineer
to make a fair determination on this matter via its letter dated 29 November 2016 (refer to Enclosure-2)
Please be advised that, the Contractor has forwarded the Engineer' s determination issued via the letter
reference (3) above to the Electrical Subcontractor. The Contractor encloses the Electrical
Subcontractor's response reference (4), for the Engineer's information and records. The Electrical
Subcontractor is of the opinion that the implementation of the varied works instructed under El No.580
at this stage of the Project would have detrimental impacts on the Project completion, w ith no added t
echnical benefits to the completed Project.
In light of the above, the Contractor reiterates that the Engineer's determination issued on 09 Ap ril
2018 is voidable and again requests the Engineer to issue an appropriate determination on the
disagreement related to El No. 580, which is whether El No.580 constitutes a Va riation or does not
constitute a Variation. If the Engineer's is on uncertain ground to determine that, the Contractor
requests the Engineer to cancel El No.580, in the best interest of the Project.
Yours faithfully,
