Dear sir
Further to notice of delay the contractor shares its concerns in respect of the subcontractor failure to
meet the deadlines set out in both revision 10 programme and the memorandum of understanding for
the release of on-account payments to the subcontractor. It is emphasized that, despite the substantial
financial funding provided by the contractor, the subcontractor has been unable to progress the
subcontractor works in a profitable fashion.
Please find below a summary of the status of the payments due to the subcontractor which is selfexplanatory.
To be clear the contractor has paid to the subcontractor more that aed 15 mil in excess to date. These
overpayments have been made in good faith and for the purpose of providing relief to the cash flow
difficulties of the subcontractor who allegedly was unable to pay its suppliers and subcontractor.
It is emphasized that the contractor has continues to provide this financial assistance despite the
subcontractors lack of commencement in respect of achieving the agreed interim milestones. The
contractor regrets that the subcontractors proposed target programme cannot be relied upon and that
no efforts appear to be made to avoid further slippages to the completion dates. For instance the
subcontractor workforce continues to be way below the required level to meet the target dates despite
numerous assurance that additional resources would be procured.
In view of the substantial value of on-accounts payment made to the subcontractor and the lack of
performance witnessed in return, the contractor hereby exercises its rights under the provisions of
clause 21.3.3 of the conditions of subcontract and demands from the subcontractor reasonable
evidence that his subcontractor and suppliers have been paid. Pursuant to the provisions of this clause,
the subcontractor is requested to proceed such reasonable evidence within 3 days of this notice.

Dear sir
The contractor confirms receipt of letter wherein the subcontractor claims that the other subcontractor
damages the works:

1.
In its letters reference 3 the subcontractor attached an observation report which consist of a
simple recollection of pictures, however, no clear evidence is provided in this report that the damage
was actually caused by the wrongdoing of the personnel employed by CSCEC. The contractor reiterates
that the subcontractor shall provide irrefutable evidence that the damage was caused by the other
subcontract in question and/or obtain a statement from the contractor / other subcontractor identifying
the culpable party.
2.
Further, the observation report attached to the subcontractors letter reference 3 provides
neither any evidence not any explanation on how the subcontract works were protected. The contractor
repeats that, pursuant to clauses 15.6.2 and 24.2.1 of the conditions of subcontract, the subcontractor
shall remain responsible for the care, custody, safekeeping and protection of each part of the
subcontract works until such time as the TOC certificate is issued by the contractor
3.
In its latest letter reference 1 the subcontractor has just attached some emails sent to the
contractor’s team regarding the damage, however the subcontractor has conveniently omitted the
response given by the contractor on the 7 January 2018 wherein the subcontractor was advised that a
statement from CDCEC or photographic evidence of the damage occurring would be required to clearly
verify that CSCEC was indeed who damaged the glass
4.
Yet again, the subcontractor’s letter reference 1 does not provide sufficient level of information
vis-‘a-vis the cause, effect (quantum), entitlement and substantiation of the claim.
5.
Despite the lack of evidence provided thus far, the contractor confirms that the subcontractor’s
report has been forwarded to CSEC for its review. Should CSCE provide any comments, these will be
forwarded to the subcontractor in due course.
Should the subcontractor intend to claim compensation vis-‘a-vis this incident, the subcontractor is
reminded of its obligation to submit a fully detailed claim within 28 days from the date of the events
which allegedly gave rise to the claim pursuant to the requirement of clause 27.1.5 of the conditions of
subcontract.
The contractor urges the subcontractor to comply with all the above as this will form part of the basis of
the contractors assessment.

Dear Sir,
Further to our letter referenced above (1) and your subsequent correspondence (2) RE: TO M/S NAFFCO
- Updated Pending Materials Log January 3 2018, we hereby write to record our concern over your
failure to fulfil your contractual obligation with regards to the procurement and installation of the
AWW-02 access panels in a timely manner. We draw your attention to the above correspondence 1)
with particular reference to the Package Delineation Plan which clearly highlights the inclusion of
aforementioned access panel(s).
Therefore, we hereby issue a “Notice of Correct” in accordance with the Conditions of Subcontract,
Clause 22.1 which states that:

•
“If the Subcontractor fails to carry out any obligation under the Subcontract, the Contractor may
by notice require the Subcontractor to make good the failure and to remedy it within a specified
reasonable period.."
Accordingly, you are hereby instructed to correct the above to the satisfaction of the Contractor within
fourteen (14) days from receipt of this letter. In addition, it is noted that any delays, costs, losses and/or
expenses incurred by us and/or other Subcontractor(s) arising as a result of the above delays shall be at
your risk and recovered from your account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.4 and
16.6.1.
Should you fail to fulfil your contractual obligations following the elapse of this ‘notice of correct’, a
further review of your performance will be undertaken and you will be notified of our decision to
appoint a third party to undertake the aforementioned works, and thus reimbursing the cost thereof
from your account.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
