Subject Contractor's Interim Claim for Disruption
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor has submitted an interim claim
for alleged Disruption and Acceleration.
The Engineer has undertaken an initial review of the submitted claim and has identified that the claim is
not fully detailed or substantiated.
Furthermore, we note that the Contractor's claim submission is a "Global Claim" consisting of
summarized values without any details and substantiating data, contemporary records and no
demonstration of cause and effect to support any entitlement to additional Cost.
Moreover, we note that the Contractor has included in its claim a forecast for disruption to be incurred.
These costs shall not be the subject of the Engineer's assessment and are rejected given that only costs
actually incurred should be included in the claim submission.
Additionally, we reject the Contractor's contention that as per the UAE law causation is presumed and
requires no proof. The Contractor's interpretation of the law is irrelevant with the Contractor's
obligation under the Contract.
The Contractor's submission fails to distinguish between the claimed costs under different claim
submissions. The Contractor shall clarify which submissions are superseded by the current claim in order
to avoid "double dipping".
The Engineer has identified the following (but not limited to) deficiencies which the Contractor is
required to address in order to enable us to diligently assess the submitted claim:
Deficiencies of the claim submission
1. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the Employer's culpability;
2. The Contractor has failed to evidence a causal link between the alleged events which have caused
the disruption and the associated cost claimed to have been incurred by the Contractor; 3. The
Contractor has failed to provide evidence that it has issued notifications in accordance with the
Contract regarding the alleged disruption events;
4. The Contractor has failed to provide evidence of the mitigation measures it has implemented to
avoid any disruption;
In addition to the above deficiencies, the Engineer has also the following observations:
Observations
1. Item 2.2.1 of the Contractor's claim states - "On the basis of delay to the progress of the Works
(which the Engineer wrongly attributed to the Contractor), the Engineer instructed Contractor to
expedite progress on various occasions." This statement is general and cannot be responded to. The
Contractor is to submit details and substantiation regarding the alleged delays which have wrongly
been attributed to the Contractor;
2. Item 2.2.3 of the Contractor's claim states - "These implied instructions constitute Variations for
which the Contractor is entitled to a valuation under Clause 16.4.3 and 20.3." The Contractor is to
submit details of "these implied instructions" and evidence the reasons they are to be valued as

Variations;
3. Please explain the statement in Item 2.3.2 of the Contractor's claim regarding an "accumulation of
the "Costs" that it incurred for each individual Variation."
4. The Contractor stated that the Employer/Engineer has failed to coordinate the works with Other
Contractors. Clauses 12.11 and 12.12 of the Conditions of Contract impose an obligation on the
Contractor - not the Employer- regarding the coordination with Other Contractors. The Contractor is
deemed to have accounted for this coordination in its Contract Price.
5. The Contractor claimed that the IFC design information and Variations have been issued in a
deficient manner and the Engineer has been deficient in administrating the Contract. The Contractor
is required to provide details of the design information and Variations which have been issued in a
deficient manner and evidence how they directly caused the Contractor to be disrupted.
6. Item 2.3.13 of the Contractor's claim states - "The Contractor does not contend that every single
change arose out of matters for which the Employer is responsible. But the bulk of them did". This is
a general statement which lacks any substantiation to support it. The Contractor is to explain what is
meant by "bulk" and provides specific details to evidence that the events to which it refers had an
actual disruptive impact.
7. The Contractor provides single sided arguments, i.e. reference is made to its own correspondence
without referencing the received Engineer's responses.
8. The claim lacks any demonstration of an incurred loss, i.e. it is a globalized evaluation method.
In light of the above, the Engineer contends that the Contractor has not demonstrated an entitlement to
additional cost at this stage as it has failed to establish causality and culpability of the events which
allegedly has caused disruption.
MTC
Yours faithfully,
