Subject Notice of Back-Charge- Request for Payment On-Behalf of CSCEC
Dear Sir,
We write further to our previous response letter referenced (1) above pertaining to your payment on
behalf request.
Following our Management consideration of your request to pay your Sub-subcontractor and Supplier
on
your behalf, below listed payments have been accepted to avoid site works being affected due to your
failure to pay your Sub-subcontractor(s) and Supplier(s). Please also be reminded of our previous letter
referenced (1) above advising you that, any "Payment onBehalf
Request" shall be both stamped and signed by the individual who holds the Subcontractor's power
of attorney, i.e. Mr. Yu Tao.
Therefore, you are required to submit your conforming letter immediately to enable us processing the
aforementioned payment on your behalf.
Accordingly, we hereby serve this Notice of Back-Charge pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract
Clause
21.3.3 (b) under the Subcontract Agreement and reserve our right to recover the aforementioned
amount
as well as our administrative fee and overhead from your payments.
This is for your information and necessary urgent action.
Subject: Re: Revise Claim
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter referenced (1) pertaining to the aforementioned subject.
Following our review of your claim submission referenced (1) above, we note that, you have
resubmitted
an updated 'Off-Site Storage Claim', which we have rejected back in early 2017 through our letter
referenced (2) above.
As you are aware, obtaining approval for the fundamental project deliverables such as below, is
condition

precedent for proceeding with your works at site. Please note that, you were still submitting your
documents for approval as late as June 2017.
• Inspection & Test Plan (ref. ITP-1093-104EA rev.01)
Submitted on 8th May 2017 and received CODE 2 on 6th June 2017.
• Method Statement (ref. MS-1093-104EA rev.OO)
· Submitted on 12th March 2017 and received CODE 2 on 11th Apri/2017.
Notwithstanding with any project schedule or area availability, we note that, you were not in a position
to
commence the site works earlier than June 2017 due to your failure to submit the documents and
obtain
the approvals.
In addition to the above, we also record that, you still do not have valid and approved insurances;
• Third Party Liability Insurance
• Workmen's Compensation
Please note, pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract Clause 10.1.2(b) under the Subcontract
Agreement, we may defer the provision of any right of access until the date on which you have valid and
approved insurances.
Moreover, your pending insurance submissions are not only affecting the commencement of your works
at site and also avoiding you to receive the Advance Payment as per the requirements stated under
Schedule 11 {Payment Terms) Paragraph 2.2 of the Subcontract Agreement.
We would like to highlight once again that, multiple handling of the materials were your choice despite
the fact that, material storage area was allocated for you. On the other hand, "Off-Site Storage Claims"
(currently rejected) are separate to 'Prolongation Claims'
(not yet received regardless of the several reminders with guidance attachments).
These email chains were issued to you on several occasions with the attachments to assist you in your
task
to prepare prolongation costs in accordance with the JV and the Engineer's Requirements, including a
Workshop held with you.
Therefore, should you deem yourself entitled to 'Prolongation Costs' for any period beyond March 2015
(EoT 2), you are required to follow the attachments and letters as previously provided on several email
and letter reminders (Attachment 1).
You are also reminded of your obligation to submit a detailed TIA Report and follow the requirements to
demonstrate your time entitlement (if any), as per the relevant clauses including but not limited 27.1
(Subcontractor's Claims), 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) under the Subcontract Agreement.
In light of the explanations, we hereby reject any claim, whatsoever pertaining to the "Off-Site Material
Storage".
This is for your reference and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
