Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0097
Delays to ADDC Approval and Obtaining Building Completion Certificate (BCC) Due to Additional Fire Life
Safety Devices Required by House of Expertise
Dear Sir
We refer to the recent receipt of commented responses to inter alia our Electrical and Fire Alarm Shop
Drawings, submitted for the purpose of seeking Code 1 for Abu Dhabi Civil Defence (ADCD) approval,
and pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we are
compelled to submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the circumstances surrounding those
comments and the events occurring since, is likely to delay [and disrupt] the Time for Completion of the
Works, and seek your urgent assistance on this matter as outlined below.
The Event(s):
We refer to our e-mail dated 20 May 2019 (ref: 2) issued to the Employer’s Design Consultant [ARUP] as
well as copied to you, attached to which were the following four schedules:

1.
‘Comments – Change in IFC – List 1’;
2.
‘Comments – Change in IFC – List 2’
3.
‘Pier 1 – AHJ and HOE comments – May 19 R14’; and
4.
‘Pier 3 – AHJ and HOE comments – May 19 R23’,
We attach further copies of these schedules at Annex A to C hereto which reflect comments made by
the Employer’s House of Expertise (HOE) endorsed on our Shop Drawings [following submission of the
same for the purpose of seeking Code 1 ADCD approval] and which indicate the requirement for
additional Fire Life Safety (FLS) devices (Smoke Detectors, Strobes, Horn Strobes, Manual Call Points,
Speakers, Heat Detectors, Exit and Emergency Lights), which we hasten to add, are not currently shown
upon IFC Drawings, or have been previously subject to Briefing Packs/Engineer’s Instructions.
These lists also reflect the outcome of various meetings and workshops that have been held since the
initial commented responses to our Shop Drawings were received; with the HOE introducing further
changes in the scope of the FLS Works through MCI inspections held prior to ADDC inspections.
The various meetings held to date include inter alia those held on 14, 15, 19 and 20 May 2019.
It was during some of the meetings and inspections that we witnessed disagreement between the
Employer’s HOE (ProFire) and the Design Consultant (ARUP), with the Design Consultant disputing
whether some of the additional devices are actually needed. Hence the reason for e-mailing you on 20
May 2019 seeking your and / or the Employer’s further guidance on the matter. However, it is
disappointing to note that at the date of raising this E-Notice you have failed to respond.
While we are endeavouring to assist with administering the required changes to the Fire Life Safety
System and coordinating between you, the Employer’s Design Consultant and the HOE, the lack of clarity
and disagreement on the design at this stage of the Project is disconcerting. In any event, the various
additional devices reflected upon the attached schedules represent substantial changes to our scope
and moreover require instructing if we are required to integrate the same into the Works. We also draw
your attention to the fact that the additional devices shown upon the noted schedules are at present,
limited to Pier 1, Pier 3 and various areas of the Central Processor (CP). We have yet to be advised of
the extent of changes to the FLS system to Pier 2 and the remaining areas of the CP.
We also remind you that our Electrical and Fire Alarm Shop Drawings had previously been approved
Status Code 2 by you based on the current IFC design and specifications. Thus, the requirement for the
additional Smoke Detectors, Strobes, Horn Strobes, Manual Call Points, Speakers, Heat Detectors, Exit
and Emergency Lights are not part of our Contract Works and warrants issuance of an EI and VO.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing any changes or variations to the FLS system and will
continue with the Works in accordance with the current IFC Drawings. We trust this is clear.
Potential Impact:
The various Shop Drawings reflected in Annexes A to C hereto, were submitted for the purpose of
seeking Code 1 for Abu Dhabi Civil Defence (ADCD) approval [of the works/installations shown
thereupon], which as you are aware, is an essential requisite in enabling us obtain the Building
Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone MS09B. Therefore any
delays in us obtaining Status Code 1 approval will impact upon the completion of Milestone MS09B.
In which respect we record that it has taken an inordinate amount of time to respond to our Shop
Drawing Submittals, taking upwards of 136 calendar days to respond, which given that most of the
submittals are at Rev. 2 or above, is 129 calendar days later that the time specified in the Contract.

Moreover, any requirement especially at this late stage of the Project, for us to alter the FLS system will
impact upon our ability to complete the remaining Works and / or testing and commissioning, and
invariably impact upon achievement of Milestone MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your urgent action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
This include without limitation:
1.
Responding to our e-mail dated 20 May 2019 (3:03pm); and
2.
Issuing such Instruction as necessary for us to instigate the required changes into the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
