
Subject:

Re: Internal Glazing Lack of Completion

Dear Sir,
Further to your letter referenced (1) above stating your concerns relating to the works of the internal
glazing package being undertaken by our Subcontractor M/S AI Ghurair (AGC), we hereby provide our
response for each of the respective matters raised in your letter, as follows:
1. Aecom’s comment – “There is no clear and consistent quantum for the remaining works within the
scope which renders any planning of these works to be non-realistic”.
Our response - We have been submitting on a weekly basis overall status and progress reports which
provide all of the information requested. We acknowledge the fact that there might have been some

confusion due to the fact that the quantum of the remaining works in previous reports was measured in
square meters but in recent reports is measured in numbers. However, the confusion has been resolved
after our presentation to the Engineer/Employer and the quantum of the remaining works has been
determined.
2. Aecom’s comment – “There is no clear visibility on the total quantities for the project and their status
with the procurement process”.
Our response – Same as item (1) above.
3. Aecom’s comment – “There is a continued delay in the delivery of material”.
Our response – The production and delivery of glasses to the site are on-going as per our plan to
complete our scope of works on time at each area. In this regard, we have taken mitigation measures to
increase efficiency. The actions taken include but are not limited to the following:
Materials are being air-freighted to minimize any delays;
The factory hours have been increased to grow production;
Some materials are produced locally for faster delivery;
More rigorous Quality Control processes have been implemented to minimize defects, increase
production and delivery;
We are working closely with our Subcontractor and the manufacturers to improve
transportation;
Measures have been taken to minimize and/or eliminate GRR;
We have established procedures for early identification of GRR;
4. Aecom’s comment – “In instances panels that are delivered late are being discovered, only upon
installation, to be incorrect in size/or in thickness leading to reworks”.
Our response – Same as item (3) above.
In addition, our Engineering department has been closely coordinating the works with our construction
teams on site, so that the works are proceeding without delays and are effectively coordinated on site.
5. Aecom’s comment – “Inappropriate logistics control and storage methods creating high percentage of
lost and broken panels”.
Our response – Same as item (3) above.
In addition:
Actions have been taken to improve the coordination of works on site;
Measures have been taken to avoid double handling;
Packing methods during transportation and storage have improved;
The requirements in regards to storage have also improved by allocating a dedicated team
responsible for controlling the quality and safety of the materials;
Further to our comments above, please note that your prompt action is also required to assist us in
expediting the works. Specifically, the following is urgently required from the Engineer:
•
Resolution of the long pending issue related to the acceptance of AGC’s structural design
calculations that are delaying the overall inspection approval process and causing loss of man-hours;

•
The Engineer is expected to recode the shop drawings of 5 work packages as agreed during
workshops (T-0557, 0564, 0581, 1080, 1406 – total 8 shop drawings);
•
Coordination issues which have occurred on site between the Employer’s contractor M/s L&T,
must be resolved. This can be established with proper understanding from L&T of the sequence of works
to avoid any further interruption of the flow of material deliveries to the site. Therefore, you are
required to provide us with clear and continuous access from ATC tower area to the south steel ramp
near GH20 .
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and clarifies the matter.
This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
