Subject :
Notice of Back charge – CI/00617-Relocation of Sprinkler riser in FF – 5.12A, Fire Zone
15, L2.0 to L4.0 (Wrapper) to avoid clashing with Cloisall’s Wall Cladding
Dear Sir,
With reference to CI/00617 (2) above, we hereby notify you that due to your insufficient coordination
and monitoring of your Subcontract Works, has led M/S PCEJV to relocate the Sprinkler riser in FF –
5.12A, Fire Zone 15, L2.0 to L4.0 (Wrapper) to avoid clashing with M/S Cloisall’s Wall Cladding.
We hereby notify you of our intention to back charge the reinstatement cost and all other associated
cost from your account according to the Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor’s
Claims).
In addition, we shall back charge any amount that falls under your responsibility in accordance to Clause
12.12.4 (Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors), whereby you are liable to the Contractor for any
claim by the Employer, other Contractors or other Subcontractors for the costs arising out of your failure
to perform the obligations under the Subcontract.
This is for your information and future reference.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject Clause 27.1.5 (a) - Interim Particulars of the Basis of Claim - Delay Notice No. 990 Movement in Side Pavilion Primary Steel Members - Failure to Address Design Errors
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein the Contractor submitted the Interim
Particulars in relation to Delay Notice No. 990 issued via (3).
We remind the Contractor that pursuant to Clause 1.3, A1 of Section 055000 and Clause 1.3, A1 Section
066116 of the Specifications the Contractor is responsible for the design of the connections and fixing
for metal fabrications as well as for solid surface fabrications and related elements, including interfaces
and coordination with work of adjoining trades in order to satisfy the performance requirements in
accordance with the Contract documents.
Furthermore, we record that to date, the Contractor has not evidenced its allegation with regards to the
alleged design error and has not provided any substantiation to this effect.
Notwithstanding the Engineer's position that the Contractor has no entitlement in relation to this Claim,
we also record that the Contractor in correspondence (1) has not evidenced the impact of the alleged
delay to its programme and furthermore has not stated the implemented mitigation measures for the
avoidance of the alleged delay in accordance with the Programme Project Control Requirements (Clause

1.3.7). Furthermore, the Contractor has failed to submit a Time Impact Analysis as required under Clause
27 .2.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
In addition to the above, the Contractor has failed to comply with the provisions of Clause 27.1.5 of the
Conditions of Contract to submit full supporting particulars of the basis of the claim.
In light of the above, we consider that the Contractor has not substantiated any entitlement to an
Extension to the Time for Completion.

Subject :Renewal of Performance Bond

Dear Sir,
We write with regards to your Performance Bond (Guarantee No: PEBDUB043754), noting the expiration
of its validity on 27th February 2018.
Please renew your Performance Bond as per the following details,
•
Substantial Completion: 30th June 2019
•
Defect Liability Period (DLP): 21 Months
•
Performance Certificate will be issued within forty-two (42) Days after the expiry date of the
Defect Liability Period, or as soon thereafter as the Subcontractor has fulfilled all of its obligations under
the Subcontract, including the completion of any work which was outstanding or required rectification
on the date stated in a Taking Over Certificate and/or the remedying and retesting of any defects,
deficiencies and/or damage notified by the Contractor pursuant to clause 19.1.2.
Therefore, your Performance Bond should be extended until the date which the Contractor received the
Performance Certificate.
This is for your immediate action and attention.

Yours Faithfully,
Subject:Re: Notification of Back Charge-Temporary Power Connections to P3 & P4
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the enclosed letters received from M/s Anel referenced through (2) to (5)
and our letter reference (1) regarding the aforesaid subject. We regret to inform you that due to your
continual delays and your lack of performance have resulted to time delays which subsequently affected
other trades.

As discussed in our letter reference (1) your failure to deliver equipment bands, light boxes and glass
screens timeously, has resulted in the temporary termination of electrical works and subsequent
abortive works, in the subject areas performed by M/s ANEL.
In view of the above and in continuation to references (1) and (2) to (5) enclosed herewith, you are
notified that the abortive works as described in the enclosed letters, will be backcharged including all
associated amount(s) from your account pursuant to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and Clause
12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors].
It is noted that your delays have been an ongoing issue which has been notified to you in numerous
correspondences. Moreover, we write to express our disappointment that the situation has not
improved despite our recurrent instructions to proceed with the works without any delay. You are
hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 [Commencement of
Subcontract Works] which states that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or Other Subcontractors.
Concluding the above, you are to implement mitigation measures to increase the efficiency of the
construction of the Subcontract Works and coordinate with other Subcontractors to avoid further
progress issues.
Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.
This is for your information record and necessary action
Yours faithfully,
