Dear Sir,
Mr. Alan Stevens, Construction Manager
AUH.06.10.0401
Midfield Terminal Building - General Contractor
TCA JV letter MTB/TCA/ AECOM/ L/000309 dated 27 February 2013
TCA JV letter MTB/TCA/ AECOM/ L/000201 dated 07 January 2013
Sub-Clauses 9.10.3
Notice of likely Delay and I or Disruption to the Works
Confirmation of Stakeholder Roles
We give notice that the above requested information and action will delay the progress of the Works,
and
potentially increase the Contract Price.
For the attached list of MSI systems, the Engineer is required to provide the information as required in
Specification 013105 and as requested in our letter referenced above (a copy is attached for your
reference).
According to our Programme, the stakeholder meetings should have started on February 16th 2013 by
commencing with the requirement capture sessions, which is followed with the development of the
CONOPS (Concept of Operation) documentation, followed by the updated design definitions which are

required in time for the award of above referenced and systems (see attached) and any related Defined
Provisions Sum items systems.
A lack of action is a cause for delay due to an act of prevention which entitles the Contractor to an
extension of Time. We urge the Engineer to take immediate action to advance and resolve this critical
Employer risk issue and avoid a potential cause for suspension. We are happy to consider and explore
possible ways to mitigate delays. In order to avoid numerous meetings with multiple Stakeholders and
mitigate the delays, we suggest limiting the number of Stakeholder at the beginning, the strategy
regarding the requirement capture sessions could be defined during a Kick-off meeting scheduled at
your
convenience.
Dear Sir,
With reference to 1) above regarding the Engineer's text instruction to omit light cover at the Public
Gallery ceiling as set out a Variation previously instructed in Bulletin no. 7 reference 3) in respect of the
light cove at the Public Gallery cei ling as set out revised Drawings. As such, our RFVO ref. 2) above may
be
considered withdrawn.
However, we urge the Engineer to apply consistent protocols in defining and instructing Variations
particularly in instances of reversa1 of previously issued Variations for implementation with immediate
effect. We further remind the Engineer that he is also required to update t he IFC documents in a
consistent manner in order to avoid Construction errors and omissions inadvertently introduces as in
the
case of Engineer's Instruction no. 62 in ref (1) above.
In accordance with Clause 9.10.3 of the Conditions of Contract, we hereby give the Engineer notice of
likely abortive works, disruption and delay to the progress of the Works and potentially increase the
Contract Price due errors arising from failure to resolve discrepant IFC Drawings.
Yours faithfully,
