Subject:
Engineers Instruction (EI) No. 662 – Omission of Stone Floor Tile
Installation at L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace
Dear Sir,
In regards to the above subject, we acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (4) requesting us to
confirm whether the reinstatement of these works will have a neutral Time and Cost Impact.
Consequently, in response to your query, we hereby inform you that there is no cost or time impact with
the introduction of EI No. 662. However, please be informed that there is a cost impact associated with
the works of Stone Floor Installation, subsequently to the receipt of other EI’s as described below.
In light of the above and for ease of reference we hereby provide a brief history of events:
Please note that in our submitted letter reference (3) for the Stone Floor Finish, the changes seen on the
quantities of the revised BoQ rates are related to Bulletin 103.1 and the rates have been adjusted
accordingly but are subject to agreement/approval.
Additionally please note the following:
•
You requested a material change for the Stone Floor Finishing (in all areas) from limestone to
granite via letter reference (1), suggesting 8 different stones described thereunder;
•
You issued the Engineer's Instruction No. 662 – “Omission of Stone Floor Tiling Installation at
L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace” via letter reference (2), in which you instructed the omission of the
installation of Stone Floor Tiling works at the area of the Hotel Building Terrace only. Furthermore, you

informed us that these works would be done by the relevant third party tenant as part of their fit-out
works. Please note that we have not submitted an RFVO for the omission of these works;
•
We have submitted letter reference (3) enclosing the Contract BoQ rates and the revised BoQ
rates and quantities, which also includes the area of Hotel Building Terrace, as instructed via letter
reference (1). The mentioned changes have been initiated via Bulletin 103.1 and subsequently, the
Engineer’s Instruction has been issued via EI No. 192b dated 14th October 2014. Please note that, even
though the Contract BoQ Quantities and Rates have changed as per our letter reference (3), the total
amount related to these works remained unchanged. Moreover, it is noted that to date we have not
received any confirmation from the Engineer about the mentioned changes in the Contract BoQ and
whether or not the revised quantities, rates and total amount have been accepted;
•
Bulletin 137.1 drawings have been received via Engineers Instruction EI 285A dated 22nd
January 2015 for the revised layout of L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace; comparison of changes between
Bulletin 103.1 and Bulletin 137.1 has been submitted under RFVO/0401/703-SC/061 and till date the
quantity reconciliation is on-going and an approval is pending. Please note that there is a cost impact
but no time impact for Bulletin 137.1 which is analysed in the mentioned RFVO;
•
Bulletin 204.1 latest drawings have been received via Engineers Instruction No. 561A dated 16th
October 2016 for L3.0 Hotel Building Terrace in which we confirmed that there are no changes from
previous Bulletin 137.1;
•
With letter reference (4), you have requested the reinstatement of works for Stone Floor Tilling
Installation at the area of the Hotel Building Terrace, which were previously descoped as stated above
via EI reference (2).
Upon reviewing the stone floor tile requirements at L3.0-hotel building terrace, we confirm the
following:
•
Cost
To clarify, please note that there is no cost or time impact related to Engineer’s Instruction No. 662,
which is further explained below. However, there is a cost impact, related to Bulletin 137.1, as
mentioned above.
In regards to Bulletin 103.1, an approval is pending with the Engineer for the revised BoQ submitted via
our letter reference (3). To be more specific as per our comments on the third (3rd) bullet-point above,
it is worth noting that our confirmation that there is no additional cost is strictly only for the quantities
included in our letter reference (3). For the avoidance of doubt, we kindly request the Engineer to
confirm that the revised rates included in our letter reference (3) are accepted. At this juncture, we
must emphasize that in case of a potential Variation including but not limited to the quantities for the
items described in our letter reference (3), the rates shown thereunder shall be used to evaluate it,
accordingly. In this regard, we can use Bulletin 137.1 as an example of a Variation, wherein the
quantities have been revised due to layout changes (from various stone types to only single type).
•
Time
We confirm that there will be no time impact related to Engineer’s Instruction No. 662, on the Rev 10.4
updated programme, as long as the Engineer provides the formal instruction to reinstate the omitted
works by, no later than 30th June 2018.
There is no time impact related to Bulletin 137.1.

We trust the above meets your approval and clarifies the matter; however, should you require any
further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Yours faithfully,
