Subject:

RE: Delays and Idle-Time Incurred Due to Cranes Unavailability

Dear Sir,
In response to your letter ref: (2), regarding the subject matter, we wish to clarify the following:
You appear to make reference to Clause 2.10 of our Contract (LOA) as described in your mentioned
letter. However, we respectfully note that your referenced number of the clause reproduced in your
letter is not correct. This is because, based on the content of the clause reproduced in your letter, this is
is in fact Clause 2.9 of the LOA and not Clause 2.10.
Additionally, we concur with your statement that coordination “issues should be resolved in
discussions” and this is the reason we are always acting with reasonable skill and care, and coordinate
our works with other Subcontractors and yourselves, at all times. Nonetheless, we wish to note that you
also have the same responsibility to coordinate with us promptly, regarding issues associated with the
subject matter, to avoid any delays to the works.
The purpose of our letter ref: (1), was simply to record the delays which have incurred due to the
unavailability of Tower Cranes and reserve our rights in the event there is a time and cost impact. A
delay analysis will be submitted, to substantiate and analyze the delays and/or costs accordingly.

Moreover, Clause 2.9 of the LOA, discusses about “Ordinary interferences or slowing down on the
Subcontract Works”. Thus, the delays due to the unavailability of cranes for several days, cannot be
considered “ordinary interferences”, as our works cannot progress without the cranes due to the lack of
equipment required to handle and transport materials for the works on site i.e. formwork,
reinforcement, etc.
In view of the foregoing and without prejudice to our right to claim for Extension of Time and any
associated costs, we assure you that we have taken and continue to take all measures in mitigating
potential delays to maintain the planned progress and to minimize any associated delays and/or costs.
Yours faithfully, .
