Subject Delay Notification-WLAN Performance Test
Dear Sir,
We write to record our concerns in relation to the frequent and uncontrolled shutdown of power in
SCRs which are directly impacting the ongoing WLAN Performance Testing.
Based on our ongoing coordination and workshop with the Contractor (attachment 1), we recorded
that the Wireless team is unable to complete the WLAN performance test on a timely manner due to
the uncoordinated power shutdown of the SCR which further leads to a shutdown of the LAN switches
and associated WLAN access points of the given areas serviced by the impacted SCR.
The completion of WLAN Performance Test throughout the MTB (all floors/levels) and up to 100m
outside the Terminal Building is already delayed and has to be completed at the earliest to identify the
WLAN blind spots in order to carry out rectification works.
It is also important to highlight that the frequent uncontrolled shutdowns or brownouts will affect the
networking devices, causing it to malfunction. One of the possible reasons could be due to the
contents of the RAM not being refreshed on time, thereby becoming corrupted and needing a reboot
to clear or, if in the middle of writing changes to flash when the power is lost, it can end up with a
corrupted software image, refer to the Manufacturer's Statement (attachment 2) for further details.
Please be reminded that for the outdoor area, WLAN Signal Coverage Testing was conducted at Gate
House 44 in Pier 4 on 30th June 2019, and during the test we have identified a few WLAN signal blind
spots at the Contact Stand and these have been reported and highlighted in the Contractor's report.
Since then the WLAN blind spots in that area have not been rectified. Please refer to NCR reference
"MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01368" that was issued to identify and record the Specification clauses that
were not fulfilled by the Contractor during the WLAN Performance Test in that area.
Moreover, considering it is a typical WLAN setup for most of the Gatehouses, except for a few
Gatehouses where distance may vary (e .g. Code-F), the Contractor should immediately proceed with
the rectification work in order not to delay the completion of the WLAN Performance Testing.
Based on the above, it is evident that the Contractor is not in control of the ongoing WLAN testing
activity and this appears to be due to the lack of adequate resources who are able to manage these
works.

Therefore, the Contractor is requested to immediately submit a detailed plan for remedying the above
and within 7 days detailing a timeline and recovery measures that will be implemented as to ensure
that a stable power is available during the testing activity and that rectification works are coordinated
and executed promptly.
The Employer and the Engineer have, on numerous occasions, requested the Contractor's MSI team to
conduct the required due diligence and coordination as to deliver the MSI role, however, the
Contractor did not proceed accordingly.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights pursuant to Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of Contract for all
delays and damages that may be incurred as a result of the Contractor's delays and inactions.
Yours faithfully,
