Subject: Delay Notification - Hotel and Office Stage 1 Room Completion
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your letter (1} in which you notify us of purported Contractor's failure to
progress and complete the the Hotel and Office target date against the Rev 11.2 Baseline
Programme.
It is our further contention that only minor works and snagging work remains for the majority of
hotel and office rooms, with the majority being available to ADAC. For rooms with on-going
activities, we stress that this work is not impacting ADAC as there are more than sufficient work
fronts available. Moreover, the Employer's fit-out works have commenced and remain on-going in
many of the rooms that have been handed-over; but at the risk of being repetitive, any snagging
works cannot be successfully undertaken and completed by us until after testing and commissioning.
On this issue of snagging, as referenced in our previous letter ref (3}, there still remains a
fundamental difference of opinion between us with regards to when a room is deemed to be
complete. However, you are of the belief that until such time as all the snags are 100% complete and
signed off, the room is being classified by you as incomplete. On the basis that many hotel and office
rooms are complete [bar minor snagging] and have been made available to ADAC, allowing for
unfettered access for the fitting-out works to be undertaken by Others, not only is your current
stance on what is deemed 'complete' inflexible but your current progress reports does not reflect
actual physical progress being achieved by us on site.
Given the fact that the rooms are substantially complete, we direct you to Sub-Clause 18.1.1(a} ofthe
Conditions of Contract which provides the following definition, in so far as substantial completion is
deemed 'to have been reached/completed and ready for Taking Over when ... the Works required ...
have been completed in accordance with the requirements of the Contract subject only to such
minor outstanding items of work and/or rectification of such minor blemishes and/or defects:
(i) The existence of which individually and collectively will not affect the use of the Works
or for the purpose intended; and
(ii) The rectification of which can very quickly and conveniently be attended to by the
Contractor post Taking Over without causing any significant inconvenience or nuisance
to the Employer or any relevant Third Party ... '
Cause & Effect testing has successfully been carried out for the hotel from level 3 and above and this
had no negative affect and does not lock down a specific area or prevent further completion of the
hotel rooms. We carried out this testing both at site and as a desktop exercise.
Any materials that are yet to be included in the. hotel or office rooms are procured, to be installed as
they arrive at site and/or to suit the orientation of rooms required at a specific date by ADAC.

During the recent ORAT trials, there was no disruption or negative impact in the areas associated
with the hotel and offices.
In any event, we remind you that under cover of our letter (2}, we have demonstrated our
entitlement to extensions of time for 5 of the 7 number of SAA8 Milestones as follows:
I. Milestone 6A: 181 calendar days from 31 December 2018 until 30 June 2019;
II. Milestone 6B: 133 calendar days from 28 February 2018 until11 July 2019;
Ill. Milestone 7: 0 calendar days with the Completion remaining 31 October 2018;
IV. Milestone 9A: 5 calendar days from 15 January 2019 until 20 January 2019;
V. Milestone 9B: 195 calendar days from 30 June 2019 until11 January 2020;
VI. Milestone 9C: 158 calendar days from 31 October 2019 until 6 April 2020; and
VII. Milestone 10: 0 calendar days with Completion remaining 31 January 2019
We are confident that when, in due course, the appropriate extensions of time are granted by you,
we will be able to demonstrate that the matter that you refer to has not caused a critical delay to any
of the Milestones.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing
our obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, but
will not be held responsible for such factors as those outlined above for which we are not culpable.
Yours faithfully
