Subject: Warranties
Dear Sir,
As you are aware, the Specifications forming part of the Subcontract require you to issue Warranties for
the benefit of the Employer and ourselves on express terms and for a specified period of time in respect
of the materials, equipment and plant supplied, installed or supplied and installed by you for the
Permanent Subcontract Works under your Subcontract.
To be specific, we request that you submit the Warranties within seven (7) days from receipt of this
letter. Further, to ensure the Warranties we submit to the Employer are in full compliance with the Main
Contract, we have developed standard warranty forms that comply with the Main Contract. These have
been submitted to and agreed with the Engineer and ADAC.
We hereby attach the link for the final form of warranties to be granted by Sub-contractors, Installers,
Suppliers and Manufacturers for each product I equipment:
https://warrantycertificate.tcajv.ae/Warranty-Certificate.html
1. The submitted Warranties should be fully compliant and consistent with the requirements of the
Sub Contract.
2. The submitted Warranties are required to comply with the note (1 to 5) contained at the end of the
enclosed warranty.
3. You are not permitted to make any amendments to the Warranty forms or to add any additional
comments on the signatory pages.
4. You are not permitted to add any standard warranty terms of your company.
5. You are to return the fully completed and executed Warranty to us (4 Original Signed Certificates
from each form), via the attached transmittal document.
6. Failure to sign the Warranty may result in rejection of materials, plant or equipment that have been
accepted thus far as approved Material Approval Request since such approval was conditional on a
Warranty being provided in a format that meets the conditions of the Main Contract to the Engineer's
satisfaction.
Subject: Notice of Delay 3 - Structural Calculations for Balustrades (Type BAL-01 & BAL-02)
Dear Sir,
Further to our letters referenced thru {4) to {6), we continue to record your persistent delays in
resubmission of Structural Calculations, Fabrication and Installation of the aforesaid works.

We further record that, as of to date, the Structural Calculations remained with Code 3 status thus a
period of exceeding two {2) years as indicated in the below table.
This adversely affects the progress of procurement, fabrication and installation of site works as
evidenced by lack of corrective action from your side in revising and resubmitting the structural
calculations for approval.
Additionally, we also record that your progress at site is very slow due to the continuous presence of
inadequate manpower, which in turn delay overall completion of these works. Consequently, you are
hereby held responsible for all the delays caused to date by your continuous failure to rectify and submit
compliant structural calculations in order to proceed with the site works.
You are hereby reminded of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract which include,
Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 provides that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or Other Subcontractors.
It is noted that any delays, costs, loses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor Is
arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
You are hereby instructed under the Subcontract Clauses 16.3 and 16.4.1 to submit a detailed and
comprehensive report that includes increasing resources, on how the above delay events will be
mitigated, within seven (7) days of the receipt of this letter.
This is for your utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
