Subject:

Rejection of the ROM Ref: 0401-PCE-ROM-0039
Duct Supports, issued via MTB-PCEJV-TCAJV-G-TN-02590

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and the above correspondences, we have noticed a drastic increase
of inflated and invalid cost submissions for alleged variations. On the contrary, we have also noticed that
no action has been taken for the valid and instructed variations for which negative values are yet to be
submitted. At this critical stage of the project, we express our absolute dissatisfaction on this
unprofessional action.
As an example, we refer to your transmittal ref: 1) with the Rough Order Estimate ref; 0401-PCE-ROM0039 estimated for AED 41,625,982.29, where you have attempted to include the possible cost of
excessively ordered, wasted and or damaged HVAC ducts, supports, accessories etc. We believe that
any potential additional costs to PCEJV related to the above HVAC ducts were due to its own failures to
manage the procurement and execution procedures in line with the Subcontract Agreement. Please
refer to the following explanations provided under different sub-headings for the related scenarios.
Unapproved HVAC Shop Drawings
The inclined narrative section of the ref; 1) ROM submission is mainly based on PCEJV’s self-motivated
letter ref: 6) above, which it expressed your intention to seek a Contractor’s Instruction for any abortive
works to be aroused due to the design changes and/or the rejection of shop drawings. However, the
letter has disregarded to comment on TCAJV’s immediate response through the letter ref: 5) above.
Though it was commented in the letter ref; 6), PCEJV neither instigated any notifications nor sought the
Contractor’s written confirmation, pursuant to the Sub Clause 20.1.4, before the implementation of
those abortive works as a variation.
TCAJV is amazed to receive the above ROM for this alleged variation for which the most contiguous and
related correspondence, ref: 2) above, is also long-standing down to May 2014. PCEJV is hereby
requested to refer all the timeworn correspondences, including the letters ref: 2) to 9) above,
communicated with PCEJV with regards to the delayed resubmissions of Code-3 & Code-4 shop drawings
and inadequate coordination of mechanical services with the BIM models.
Therefore, on the above basis, we hereby reject your attempt to demonstrate any entitlement to an
extension of Subcontract Time for Completion or any adjustment to the Subcontract Price, pursuant to

the sub-clause 16.5 and the sub-clause 21.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract respectively, to be claimed
as expressed in the PCEJV’s letters ref; 6) and 1).
Air Leakage Testing for HVAC ducts
In addition to the above futile issue developed by PCEJV and with regards to the unapproved HVAC shop
drawings, you have also attempted desperately, to integrate the above professed variation with the
concerns alarmed, with regards to the Air Leakage Testing of the HVAC duct works, through the PCEJV
letters ref; 13) & 10) above. We remind you that the assertions mentioned in those letters have already
been strongly rejected, with necessary details, by the Contractor as well as the Engineer, through the
letters ref: 11) & 12) above.
We hereby reiterate our position that there was no amendment required for item 3.9B2; the field
quality control system of the Specification section 233113, even if the required standards for the HVAC
Duct were revised during the Value Engineering exercises in order to introduce the DW/144 standards. It
should be noted that the requirement to carry out the Air Leakage tests was not omitted intentionally
and it was required to carry the precedence over the other requirements specified by the DW/144
standards.
Therefore, in line with the Specification, it is obligatory for the Subcontractor to perform the Air Leakage
Testing of the HVAC duct works. Further, we highlight items 4.2.23, 4.2.29 and 4.2.36 of the Scope of
Subcontract Works and item G1 of the Responsibility Matrix of the Subcontract Agreement, where it
confirms the requirement of the Air Leakage Testing of the HVAC duct works. We also bring to your
attention item D59 of the sequence of works in the method statement; MS-1093-306 Rev 0 dated 25
November 2013 submitted for the installation of HVAC ducts, accessories, Air leak test, insulation &
cleanliness, where it was assured by PCEJV, before it changed its opinion irrationally, to execute Air
Leakage tests for the HVAC duct works under the Subcontract Agreement.
While PCEJV is appreciated for the understanding of their right to reverse its position, however, aborting
the issue from the year of 2014 and performing the above scope of work, has left us with no choice but
to express our displeasure on your efforts to incorporate the same matter inappropriately to any
potential additional costs of HVAC ducts at this stage.
With that in mind, we hereby reject your attempt to demonstrate any entitlement to an extension of
Subcontract Time for Completion or any adjustment to the Subcontract Price, pursuant to the sub-clause
16.5 and the sub-clause 21.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract respectively, to be claimed as expressed
in the PCEJV’s letters ref; 10) and 1).
Poor Quality of the HVAC Ducts
TCAJV is of the opinion that any possible HVAC ducts, its supports, accessories excessively ordered or
wasted or damaged, might be linked to the poor quality of the facilities, fabrication, storage and
protection for the HVAC duct works maintained by PCEJV since the early stage of the project. Please
refer to letters ref: 14) to 20) where TCAJV raised its concerns and NCRs on the same matter.
Therefore, we hereby summarize that the PCEJV has no entitlement for an extension of Subcontract
Time for Completion or any adjustment to the Subcontract Price, pursuant to the sub-clause 16.5 and

the sub-clause 21.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract respectively, to be claimed as alarmed in the Rough
Order Estimate Ref: 0401-PCE-ROM-0039.
We hereby request PCEJV to refrain from submitting such unfair variations which lead not only to
wasting valuable time and efforts of both parties at this critical stage, but also damage the important
relationship required to the commercial close-out the Subcontract package effectively.
Yours faithfully,
