Dear Sir,

With reference to your letter reference (1) above, as the Engineer's Assistant's continues to quote the
Contract verbatim, the Contractor offers the following analysis of Volume 2 (Part 2), Sub-Clause 9.1.2.5 f
ii H so that the situation can be resolved.

The Engineer's Assistant is to kindly note the definition of Accepted Contract Amount, in accordance
with Volume 3, Sub-Clause 1.1.4.1:

"Accepted Contract Amount " means the Amount stated in the Letter of Acceptance for the execution
and completion of the work under the Contract and the Remedial Work. The breakdown of this
Accepted Contract Amount is contained in Contractor's Proposal.

This is to be contrasted with Volume 3, Sub-Clause 1.1.4.2:

"Contract Price" as of the date of the Letter of Acceptance , means the Accepted Contract Amount less
Provisional Sums. {..}

Volume 2 (Part 2), Sub-Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H states:

The Design Verification Engineer's scope of work will apply to all defined works within the Accepted
Contract Amount, covering both the lump sum and the Provisional Sum portions of the Accepted
Contract Amount. [...} The Accepted Contract Amount includes the DVE'sfull scope of work which
includes checking and certifying the provisional sum elements of the Works.

There is no argument from the Contractor that the Accepted Contract Amount includes the DVE scope
of the Provisional Sums work; what Sub-Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H does not state is that the cost for the DVE is
included in the Contract Price, a subdivision of the Accepted Contract Amount. The Contractor's
contention has always been that the cost of the DVE related to provisional sum design work was
contained within the Provisional Sums, itself a part of the Accepted Contract Amount.

ALYSJ
joint venture

Apart from this being logical given the nature of the service being provided - it is clearly putting the cart
before the horse to suggest that the cost of verification of a design whose value would be determined in
the future would be determined prior to ascertaining the extent of the design - the Contractor has not
relied solely on a rational interpretation of the Contract and had in fact raised a question during the
tender process to provide clarity on this matter.

The Engineer's Assistant's attention is drawn to Tender Clarification TC02 contained within Volume 11 of
the Contract, in Item 7 a i, titled "Section 6 - Annex 1 - Understanding of the Terms of Reference", an
extract of which is reproduced below:
This clarification provides the required information to determine that while the cost of the DVE is
contained within the Accepted Contract Amount , it is not within the Contract Price. This clarification
being complementary and not contradictory to Sub-Clause 9.1.2.5 f ii H, there can be no doubt as to the
correctness of the Contractor's position on this matter.

Given the lack of any evidence to the contrary the Contractor looks forward to receiving acceptance of
its subject SAR submissions and expeditious resolution of the Claim that it has regrettably been
compelled to file regarding the costs of the DVE.

Yours faithfully,
