Subject Roofing Works
Dear Sir,

We write with reference to the above letter (1} in relation to ongoing poor performance with the roofing
works and highlight that your Subcontractor's performance since April 2017, has not significantly been
improved. For the record, we advise that the Engineer is monitoring the works in line with the Contract,
Project Specification, ITP's, approved mock ups and benchmarks. The Engineer is continuously working
with your QA/QC team in order to address the numerous quality issues and a number of quality issues
have been addressed by the Contractor. We reject the Contractor's assertions regarding alleged
misinterpretation of the Project Specifications by the Engineer and refer you to the outstanding NCRs
and correspondence that outlines and details where short falls and the noncompliance to the project
requirements were identified. Both the Employer and the Engineer remain concerned with the current
rate of progress and the resulting delays despite all assurance to overcome this. '· The Contractor is
therefore requested to take all the necessary steps to comply with its obligations under the Contract
and efficiently manage its Subcontractor as required under Clause 12.9.6 of the Conditions of Contract.
Subject: Confirmation of Settlement for Non-Compliance of Remote Annunciator
Dear Sir
We write with reference to the above subject for your attention.
Further to our numerous discussions and meetings, we wish to record that both parties have finally
achieved an amicable settlement, whereby M/S Cummins has agreed to compensate to TCA JV with a
Lump Sum amount of AED 350,000.00 (Dirham: Three Hundred Fifty Thousand Only) towards the cost of
cabling works due to non-compliance of remote annunciator requirement, as an alternative solution in
lieu of LAN connections as per Contract Specification.
Further to your request via Email dated 17 January 2018, we hereby confirm the said amount shall be
settled against your final payment via a formal negative Variation Order which shall be issued
separately.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
