Subject:

Canopy Works Package – Notice of Delay - Procurement Activities

Dear Sir,
In reference to our previous correspondence (3), we hereby issue this notice of delay regarding your
failure to procure materials in line with site requirements. Despite agreement at our site meeting (4th
October 2018) that you would progress material orders upon receipt of monies under payment
certificate nr.2 (1.79m received in October 2018) – this has so far failed to materialise. Instead, you have
requested further financial support in your letter above (5).
Please be reminded that we have already supported you by revising the cost-loading associated with
your subcontracted works in order to closely align with actual progress on site - thus aiding your cash
flow. Furthermore, you are already in receipt of advance payments which are in place to support the
procurement activities of the subcontractor. If you are experiencing cash-flow issues this cannot be
attributed to the Contractor, we cannot be held accountable for any mismanagement of finances that
has occurred by you or any other subcontractor.
We therefore take this opportunity to remind you of your obligations as set out under the Subcontract Clause 8.1.2 [Subcontractors Obligations]. Moreover, Subcontract Clause 16.1.1 [Commencement of
Subcontract Works] provides that you are obliged to progress the Subcontract Works with due
expedition and without delay, and should neither delay nor adversely affect the performance of TCAJV
or other subcontractors.

You have subsequently issued the Procurement and Construction Teams with your ‘best accelerated
programme’ (6) and corresponding material delivery schedule (see enclosures). This has been reviewed
by our Construction Team and is deemed acceptable and aligns with the previously issued Main Contract
Programme (5). We therefore request that substantiation is provided within 3 days of receipt of this
letter, demonstrating that you have placed the necessary orders to ensure the dates within your
programme are achieved. In addition to the above, we request that weekly updates are sent from your
suppliers to our procurement team, demonstrating that the fabrication of all materials is progressing in
line with programme requirements.

Please note that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other Subcontractor/s
arising as a result of the incurred delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your account in
accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3[Contractor’s Claims], 16.6.1 [Delay Damages] and other
relevant clauses.
This is for your immediate action and attention.
Yours faithfully,
