
Subject: Re Settlement Agreement and Amendment No 8 TIA Methodology
Dear sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter reference (1) above on 23 December 2018. As requested we
set down below our proposed TIA methodologl provided via email on 6 December 20182
•
Fragnet development
• A draft fragnet (based on the information provided with the Engineer's Instruction
requesting a cost and time proposal) depicting the envisaged works shall be developed in
conjunction with the relevant Subcontractors to reflect how the additional works would be
executed.
• The fragnet will be circulated internally to the appropriate teams within TCAJV for
comment, (including but not limited to engineering, construction/operations, project
controls, commissioning/close-out and commercial).
• The fragnet will be amended and finalised, incorporating comments received, and then will
be submitted to the Engineer.
• Thereafter, TCAJV and the Engineer will endeavour to agree on the activities, durations and

logic of the fragnet.
Fragnet Impact
• Ideally, and in accordance with industry recognised practice, the TIA process would require
progress to be established and the current working programme (currently Rev 11.2) to be
updated to the date immediately prior to the commencement of the impacting event.
However, this cannot be achieved as the Engineer requires a minimum of 33 days3 after
receiving our cost and time proposal before he is in a position to issue the necessary
Variation Order.
• Therefore, as an alternative to the above methodology, the agreed fragnet shall be inserted
into the approved Rev 11.2 programme (with no post 4th September 2018 progress applied)
and the start and finish activities in the fragnet shall be logically linked to the appropriate
activities in this programme.
• The logic connecting both ends of the fragnet to the Rev 11.2 programme activities shall be
verified by TCAJV's project controls department.
• The Rev 11.2 programme, complete with the new fragnet, shall be rescheduled to establish
the impact to the milestones resulting from the proposed Variation.
Yours faithfully,
