Subject: None-Availability of Work front-PCA Duct
Dear Sir,
Further to receipt of the aforementioned letters pertaining to alleged unavailability of work fronts
associated with
Pre-Conditioned Air Ductwork, we would respond as follows.
As per letter reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/02160 dated 81
h March 2016, you have alleged that Gate House 28 is still
pending due to lack of excavation. We refute such an allegation in its entirety and would clarify for the
record that
you have been working within this area for over 2 months and yet at time of writing you have failed to
supply and
install the required puddle fl(!nges. This in turn is significantly delaying the critical works associated with
the closure
of wall, water proofing and backfilling.
We would also place on record that Gatehouse 35 Works are still in progress and an approved WIR has
still not been
issued. On the basis of this we find your statement that you don't have a work front completely spurious
and
baseless. Your continuous failure in this regard has and continues to result in idle time being incurred by
us with

regards to resources and that of associated plant and equipment allocated for backfilling of the PCA
Works.
Furthermore, Gate House 4 PCA excavation is pending due to the further delays associated with Sewer
connections
which form an integral part of your contracted works. The current situation of your unapproved
installations has
resulted in yet further idle time being incurred by us, including that of associated plant and equipment.
It remains the your responsibility to plan your resources accordingly for the various activities under your
scope
however, below are the expected dates for the completion of civil Works to Gatehouses 3, 4, 37, 19 and
20.
We hold you completely culpable for all delays associated with this element of the works and the
repercussions that the same will have on follow on trades and/or activities. In this instance we cite that
of Clause 16.4.1 (recovery of delays) for ease of reference
Clause 16.4.1 - Recovery of Delays
If, at any time:
(a) The Contractor considers (acting reasonably} that actual progress Is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract Time for Completion:
(b) Progress has fallen for will faiiJ behind the Subcontract Programme: and/or
(c) The Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractors
Programme or other parts of the Contract Works,
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme}, a
revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out
In Clause
16.3 (SUbcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor
proposes to adopt In order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for
Completion. These
revised methods may Include Increases in the working hours and/or In the numbers of Subcontractor's
Personnel
and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised
Subcontract
Programme and supporting report within seven {7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor
may act reasonably. if It considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be Insufficient or Inappropriate,
Instruct the
Subcontractor to make such amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and
supporting report as It considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply
with any such amendments and/or modifications.'
Failure to recover delays which are completely of your own making will result in all costs of the same
such as (but not limited to) Idle workforce (Labour), plant and equipment being levied against your
account in strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims). Costs so far incurred by us in

this regard will be forwarded to you under cover of separate letter, with the same being recovered
against your next payment certificate.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will carry out the necessary as a matter of
urgency. If you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact
the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
