
Dear Sir,

Further to the above referenced letters with regards to the Temporary Traffic Management (TTM) at
Joaan Station and Bin Mahmoud Station we herewith inform you as follows:

TTM at Bin Mahmoud Station
As presented by ALYSJ during the Quarterly Senior Management Meeting on 4th October 2015, we
herewith confirm that the duration of the approved Temporary Traffic Management (TTM) plan for .Bin
Mahmoud Station can be reduced by 12 months and be re-instated by 1 August 2017.
This reduction can be achieved by Acceleration of the station construction and Acceleration of
reinstatement of the utilities after completion of the roof slab.

The Engineer's Assistant is requested to confirm the acceptance of an Acceleration of the above
mentioned works at the latest by 1st April 2016 in order for the Contractor to develop a detailed
proposal and to achieve this earlier re-instatement of the TTM for Bin Mahmoud Station.

TTM at Joaan Station
Reference is made to the above letter 2), in which ALYSJ has presented the Engineer's Assistant with a
proposal for a reduction of 8.5 months of the TTM. The reduction of 8.5 months was achieved by an
Acceleration of the station construction, resulting in a 2 month reduction and by the introduction of an
alternative construction method for the subway, resulting in an additional 6.5 month reduction.

ALYSJ note that the changes resulting from the revised Urban Integration of Pop Ups at Joaan station
and further impact from the Group 2 changes has affected to progress of both the design and
construction of the station. The current design status, as an effect of the above referred impact has not
matured sufficiently enough for the Contractor to propose an acceleration of the station construction
resulting in a reduced TTM. Therefore it is noted that the reduction in the TTM by accelerating the
station box and subway construction is no longer achievable.
The Contractor is unable to propose a reduction in the Temporary Traffic Management until all design
issues are being approved and the work scope is clearly defined as a result of such changes.

We kindly seek the Engineer's Assistant consent to develop the above referred proposal further.
Yours faithfully,
