Subject Subsidence - lack of complete and coordinated economic and appropriate design
solution to the subsidence of the sewer and storm water infrastructure: suspend
further works
Cross Ref. {1) MTB/TCA/ ADAC/L/000651 dated 15 July 2019
(2} MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10764 dated 17 June 2019
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) issued by the Contractor to the Employer notifying
that the Contractor suspends all site remedial works in relation to subsidence.
The Contractor has no right under the Contract to suspend the Works. On the contrary, the Contractor
is obligated to comply with the instructions given by the Engineer under Clause 11.3 of the Conditions
of Contract. We consider the Contractor to be in material breach of the Contract and we reserve the
Employer's rights for any damage which the Employer may incur as a result of the Contractor's breach.
In addition to the above, we also note that the Contractor did not adhere to their obligations under
Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No 8 to raise the possibility of suspending
the works during the Risk Committee Meeting and prior to unilatery deciding to proceed to suspend
the Works, despite the topic of Subsidence being an issue of discussion during all Risk Committee
Meetings and the Contractors' assurances of progressing with the works.
As previously conveyed via correspondence (2), the Contractor has and continues to delay the
development of the complete design as a result of {but not limited to) the following:
• Delays in the completion of correctly executed CPTs and SPTs;
• Delays in proceeding with the inundation testing for the manholes;

• Inaccurate and unreliable CC1V tilt graphics
The Contractor's allegation that a comprehensive and coordinated design is not in place, is irrelevant.
The Contractor has received comprehensive instructions which enable them to proceed with
immediate effect with the rectification works at numerous locations around the MTB Building.
Furthermore, the Contractor's statement regarding the alleged mobilization of specialist
subcontractors is inaccurate. The Contractor and despite instruction from the Engineer to proceed
with the ground treatment, has failed to appoint any specialist subcontractor to date. Moreover,
notwithstanding numerous requests from the Engineer and the Employer during workshops and
meetings, the Contractor has also failed to provide a resource loaded programme for the work which
have been instructed.
The Contractor's contention that they are unable "to properly programme, resource and sequence
works" is not acceptable given that the Contractor is responsible to coordinate and sequence their
construction activities. The Contractor is currently acting in bad faith and against their obligations
under Section 01 31 03 "to behave in a professional manner and to proceed with integrity to execute
the work in the best manner possible".
To conclude, we reiterate and remind the Contractor that they are obligated under Clause 11.3 of the
Conditions of Contract and Clause 5 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No.8 to proceed
with the rectification works for the Subsidence upon being instructed to do so by the Engineer.
In light of the above, the Contractor shall immediately seize the suspension and proceed with the
required works.
Yours faithfully,
