Subject Installation of Glass Fin, GRC Steel Brackets
Dear Sir,
We refer to the accompanied surveillance inspection photos included in Appendix A and the list of issues
that require your immediate attention as follows:
1. Unacceptable installation of glass screen brackets as packing of brackets not comply with the
approved shop drawings.
2. Improper rectification of concrete slab.
3. Proceeding with the subsequent installation without securing approvals on mockups from the
Engineer.
4. Improper installation of insulation for LB2 fire rated screens steelwork.

5. Incorrect erection and lack of protection of erected steelwork which resulted in damages to the
intumescent paint of the fire rated screens steelwork.
6. Proceeding with installation works without approved material inspection requests (MIRs).
Please be reminded that the examination of available areas for readiness to proceed with the
installation
should be conducted with all parties attending including you installer as to validat ed compliance with
the
installation tolerances requirements and other similarly related conditions that may compromise the
works.
All concrete slab surfaces should be rectified and installation may proceed only after all identified
deficiencies have been corrected.
We request that you propose the necessary remedial measures to rectify the non-conforming works
being
identified. You are requested as a matter of urgency to address all outstanding concerns on the
installation
of frameless glass screens, glass fins and associated work to conform to specification and approved
method statement.
We would record here that should you not take any further actions to remedy these non-conformities
then
you are proceeding with these works at your own risk and we therefore advise that any Employer
actions
that maybe necessitated in order to correct and remedy these non-conformities shall be borne by you
and
the resulting delays due to any re-work shall be at your account with respect to any additional cost or
time.
Yours faithfully,
