Subject: Schematic design for Suspended Glass Structure
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter LTR-02038 and advise that the Suspended Glass Structure is a Defined Provisional
Sum item (B ill 4/E).
The Contract requires the Engineer to issue his instructions for this Defined Provisional Sum item by no
later than the time " ... contemplated by the information release dates set out in the Bill of Quantities ...
"being
NTC + 365 days, approx .. 16 August 2013.
Such instructions should be given under an Engineer's Instruction, or Variation Order, and include the
approved supply and install tender for the selected subcontractor, the necessary designed Drawings,
Specifications, agreed commercial terms and whatsoever required to enable us to place a subcontract
with the selected tenderer.
The Contract does not define this DPS item as a Contractor supplied item or as Contractor designed
item. The Contract Documents include a 'Design Report Vol 3 of 4, Book 19 of 24- Light and
WaterConcept
Design and Proposal' as prepared by Carpenter I Lowings Architecture & Design {CLAD), in
which CLAD clearly state that the design is theirs and that Arup have assessed it for impact on
surrounding structures and seismic conditions. There is no Specification for this DPS item in the Contract
Documents.
Accordingly, we are unable to accept the supply of or any design liability for this item and accordingly
we shall not be pursuing the requests included in your referenced letter.
We respectfully request the Engineer to follow the agreed procedures for DPS Items and issue a full
package as summarized above that enables us to place a subcontract with the selected tenderer.
In the meantime, we will assist you where possible with the Employer's selected tenderers in workshops
on matters related to buildability, access, programme, etc., but not in matters of design.
In conclusion we will adhere to the Engineer's Instruction in due course to enter in to 'supply and install'

subcontract with the Employer's selected tenderer on the basis stated above.
Yours faithfully,
