Subject: Value Engineering Item MEP-19 (HVAC Hydronic ABS Piping) Realization of MEP 19 Value
Engineering Item
Dear Sir,
We refer to Engineer's letter ref. MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-01353 dated 08 April 2014 and respond as
follows.
Suitability of ABS/ERW Hybrid
We maintain that the ABS pipe is an ill-considered material for the Hydronic piping system in
combination
with the steel pipe. Notwithstanding Consultant's language focusing on the "installation, operation and
maintenance in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations", it appears that such language is
designed to shift attention to the Product and workmanship without addressing the actual design of the
pipe system or the likely consequences of using such Product, which in our opinion is not fit for its
intended purpose.
Such remarks are not acceptable and they will not absolve the Consultant from future liability by shifting
the focus to the Product, Product manufacturer warranties and Contractor Warranties. We hereby
reiterate on the basis of 2 professional consultant reports that the Product is not fit for its intended
purpose.
Provision of Suitable Value Engineering Item Design
There is no doubt that both Parties intended to implement Value Engineering Item (VEl) MEP-19.
However, the Employer did not fulfill its obligation by providing a suitable design. We reiterate that
Conditions of Contract Clause 9.7.1:
"For the avoidance of doubt, the design of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value
Engineering Items shall be the responsibility of the Employer."
Therefore, the Engineer's statement that the Employer intends "to retain the system as designed and
specified," incorrectly implies that the Employer delivered a hybrid piping system design. This is not the
case as the Engineer did not issue any Drawings that reflect a redesigned hybrid chilled water piping
system.
Therefore, the first premise of your letter does not hold; the Employer through its Engineer and/or
Consultants should have provided a responsible design including undertaking the liability for the fitness
for purpose. This is a fundamental condition of Contract in order to realize the so called "intentions" of
VEl MEP-19. Providing a Specification that sets out various types of Materials does not deflect the
responsibly for the selection of combinations of Materials and Products or the design of such hybrid
system onto the Contractor. This remains an Employer responsibility.
The Employer is required to develop and deliver a constructible and a fit for purpose design of the VEl;
not
merely to reissue a Specification that includes multiple Product/Material descriptions. Merely adding a
Product type in a Specification does not constitute responsibility for design. In fact the IFC Drawing
design
was not changed at all. As such the VEl design cannot be deemed as having been delivered or realized. In
the light of the above, the Engineer's remark that the Contractor "should not be reverting to the base
contract works" is inconsistent; since the design was never changed. Only a properly detailed IFC

Drawings showing the hybrid system piping details may be deemed a constructible design.
However, we do agree with the Engineer on the principle that the Contractor "is not entitled to make
unilateral decisions in relation to changing ... the work." This is solely the right of the Employer. What we
attempted to express is that we have to revert to the intents of the original Contract because the
Employer never fulfilled the design intents by issuing a VEl design of the hybrid piping system in
accordance with the Employer's responsibility pursuant to Clause 9.7.1 in the first instance.
Achievement of Value Engineering Saving (MEP 19)
In respect of the Tender Bulletin references, it appears the Engineer failed to acknowledge that Tender
Bulletins are incorporated into the Contract and are established at a higher order of precedence than
the
Specifications and Drawings in Clause 9.6.1. The Contract Definitions establish the following:
"Tender Bulletin means the tender bulletins numbered 1-26 inclusive issued to the
Contractor during the tender period but only such relevant parts as are required to clarify
any inconsistency, ambiguity or discrepancy, if any, in or between the Drawings and/or
Specification; "
We refer you to our letter ref. MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/001561 dated 2 March 2014 which, provided a
transcription of the Employer's responses to Tender Bulletin No. 5 RFC no. 70 dated 23 May 2011 and
Tender Bulletin No. 9 RFC no. 68 dated 20 June 2011 {both related Specification 232113 pipes), whereby
the Employer confirmed "Per Specification, either ERW or Seamless is acceptable" and "Either [ERW or
Seamless] is acceptable," respectively.
Semantics notwithstanding, the seamless and ERW pipes were accepted by the Employer as equal. The
Tender Bulletins cited above predate any Value Engineering Item initiatives which commenced in early
2012.
Actual Installation on Site
We kindly ask the Engineer to consider the Contract terms that establish the Employer's reliance on the
Contractor pursuant Condition of Contract Clause 8.1.1:
" ... whilst the Employer may have appointed... an Engineer or other Consultants, in
connection with the management of the Works, the Employer is and will at all times be
looking to and shall be reliant upon the Contractor's professional expertise, skill, care and
judgment in relation to all matters concerning the execution and completion of the
Works ... " For the reasons provided here above, we will not install any Works that as an Experienced
Contractor we
deem to be unfit for its intended purpose. The Engineer should consider that the Consultant refrained
from providing revised IFC Drawings for the hybrid design and to uphold the obligations under the
Contract for the establishment of a responsible design, we believe the matter of ABS piping should be
closed on its own merits.
In summary, the commercial and technical principles underlying this Value Engineering Item do not
support a Value Engineering cost reduction as no ABS pipes were implemented in the IFC Drawings and
ERW and Seamless are equally allowable under the base Contract document (i.e. before Value
Engineering Items) as confirmed by the Employer in the Tender Bulletins referenced above. Therefore,
the Employer is not entitled to any Value Engineering Item saving for MEP 19.
In respect of Value Engineering Proposals intended to contribute to the Provisional Value Engineering
Savings target, please be reminded that achieving Provisional Value Engineer Savings is a joint
responsibility of the Parties and may be considered outside the specific issues of VEl MEP-19.
Yours faithfully,
