Subject: RE: Notice of Delay- Pending Approval on Sub-Subcontractor Variations Cost
Dear Sir,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference {1) wherein the Subcontractor (i) informs that, due
to
cash flow issues, the Sub-Subcontractor Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Middle East {CBEME) requires
an
on-account payment of 'not less than' AED 30 million against Variations I claims submissions and (ii)
advises that the non-payment of this amount would result in further delays to the completion of the
Subcontract Works.
To be clear, pursuant to Clause 9.18.2 of the Conditions of Subcontract, 'nothing contained in the
Subcontract or any sub-subcontract awarded by the Subcontractor shall create any contractual
relationship between the Contractor and any such Sub-subcontractor(s)'. In other words, the
Subcontractor has entered a contract with the Sub-Subcontractor CBEME; hence, it is the
Subcontractor's
responsibility to assess and/or pay the Variations/claims of his subcontractor.

Notwithstanding the contractual aspect highlighted above, be reminded that the Contractor has paid
over
AED 153 million on-account to the Subcontractor to date; over AED 55 million have been paid against
Variations, over AED 82 million have been paid against acceleration claims and AED 12 million have been
paid to improve the Subcontractor's cash flow. Furthermore, over AED 120 million out of the AED 153
million paid to the Subcontractor on-account to date, have not yet been recovered by the Contractor.
In view of the financial aid provided to the Subcontractor thus far, the Contractor is perplexed at the
Subcontractor's demands and requests the Subcontractor provides reasonable evidence that these
onaccounts
payments have been passed on to the Sub-Subcontractor(s). Pursuant to Clause 21.3.3 of the
Conditions of Subcontract, the Subcontractor is requested to provide such evidence within three {3)
days
of this notice.
Subject: Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor's
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB/PCEJV/TCAJV/L/00962 with the subject matter
'Outstanding Payment to Sub-Subcontractor' and would respond as follows.
The letter itself is somewhat puzzling and nondescript as it appears to not only address two issues but
fails to
substantiate any entitlement to either cost or money in any regard whatsoever. The issues in question
being that
of the alleged late payments culminating In an unsubstantiated claim of AED 878,000.00 covering
Interests
payments of the same and that of your obvious non-payment of monies/dues to your domestic SubContractors.
For ease of understanding we will deal with these issues separately.
We wish to further place on record that we have proof as to two instances whereas you have failed to
pay your
domestic subcontractors/suppliers despite the fact that payment for these services has already been
remitted by
us to you. With reference to Wall Green International, we confirm that despite the issuance of our
Letter
Reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001189 it is abundantly clear that you did not respect our instruction. You
have
failed to provide any substantiation or any update as to the payment of this account culminating in an
impromptu
meeting between your Sub-Contractor and our Sub-Contract Administration Department.
You were requested to deal with this dispute almost 2 months ago yet we find that you have no
intention to close

out the same of your own accord. We will address this issue in more detail under a separate letter,
needless to
say however we are extremely disappointed with not only your lack of urgency but also
acknowledgement as to
the gravity of the situation.
In addition to the aforementioned you were advised under cover of our Letter reference
MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/001285 dated 24th March 2015 that it had come to the attention of the Employer
that you had
failed to make payment to numerous ductwork manufacturers I suppliers and the same had ceased
production
and/or delivery.
As stated within our letter this issue is highly embarrassing and cannot be entertained. We are at a
critical stage
of the venture whereas ceased ductwork deliveries will have a detrimental impact on the progress or
works. You
were requested by COB on 31st March 2015 to provide confirmation that this dispute was resolved . At
time of
writing you have failed to offer any sort of substantiation, tangible or otherwise either in the form of
letters or cheque copies and we can only assume that the issue is ongoing. We will address this issue in
more detail under
cover of separate letter.
With regards to your spurious statement that 'non-payment of our dues in a timely manner has a major
contribution to the delays to payment of our subcontractors', we refute this allegation in its entirety.
You have
· issued on numerous occasions your assessment as to the perceived interest charges applicable based
on your
interpretation of the Payment Terms included within your Subcontract. We have addressed your claim
utilising
the payment mechanisms in place within our Letter Reference MTBITCAIPCEJVILI001247 dated 11th
March 2015.
In this instance we would attach a detailed breakdown as to our assessment that was previously relayed.
Whilst acknowledging that on 2 occasions over the course of a calendar year your payment was late, the
overall
lateness combined over the same period equated to 9 calendar days only. It was stated within our letter
that if
you wished to pursue a payment I claim for late payments it was a requirement that a revised cost be
submitted in
line with the correct pertinent information. Any value derived from the same bearing in mind the extent
of the
payment delay would be somewhat minimal and at time of writing we have received no details from
your side in
this matter so assume that it is not your intention to pursue this.

In summary we refute any allegation I suggestion of entitlement for disruption costs from PCEJV as it Is
clear that
any perceived failure In regards to payments is as a direct result of your own JV internal shortcomings.
We will
continue to pay you in accordance with Schedule 11 of your Subcontract and must insist that all future
correspondences on the subject matter are based on facts not fiction.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory however if you seek further clarification as to the
content
of the same, please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully
