The Contractor refers to letter reference 1) whereby the Engineer's Assistant requested a quotation and
programme for the design and construction of the amended pedestrian Access and Underpass walkways
at Souq Waqif Station.

Further to the Engineer's Assistant's request, the Contractor hereby submits a detailed quotation for the
amended pedestrian Access and Underpass walkways at Souq Waqif Station.

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes, reinforcement, ELS
and utility diversion design costs as detailed and enclosed herewith is QAR 7,732,910.14.

Given the limited amount of time and information available at this stage, the estimated costs for the
civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes, reinforcement and ELS designs have been calcula ted by
adjusting the previously submitted relevant design cost for the Joaan Station to Al Sadd Mall Pedestrian
Underpass and for the Revised Metro Connection between Qatar National Museum and the Museum
Park with reference to gross floor area.

The Contractor's current estimate for the civil, structural, MEP, architectural finishes and utility diversion
construction costs as detailed and enclosed herewith is QAR 20,960,600.37.

The estimated MEP and architectural finishes construction costs have been calculated on the basis of
the information provided for Provisional Sums in Volume 2 Part 2 [Commercial Proposal] of the
Contract, as it is not possible at this time to provide a more accurate cost for these items.

Given the limited amount of time and information available at this stage, cost estimates associated with
Utility Diversion Works cannot be provided and for the purpose of this submission the Utility Diversion
construction cost is the one that was previously submitted for the Joaan Station to Al Sadd Mall
Pedestrian Underpass.

The programme for the design and build of the amended pedestrian Access and Underpass walkways
can only be provided when all necessary outstanding information will become available.

ALYSJ
joint venture

In summary therefore:
•

The design cost is estimated at QAR 7,732 ,910.14

•

The construction cost is estimated at QAR 20,960,600.37

•
A programme necessarily requires the preceding information to be complete and can be
provided as soon as the designs are adequately advanced.

The estimated structural, civil, MEP, architectural finishes and utility relocation design and construction
cost is provided for budgeting purposes only and does not include any other additional cost that may
arise as a consequence of a late Instruction, such as the cost of rework or abortive design, especially for
the Souq Waqif current subway configuration and station concourse level. These costs (if any) will be
addressed under separate cover.

Accordingly ,the Contractor's current estimate cannot be constrained by the Engineer's Assistant's
request for
"abest estimate of plus (+) or minus (-) fifteen percent (15%)."

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.
Yours faithfully,
