Subject: MTA Underground Utility CAD FILES (in CD) and WIRs from Potable Water, Fire Water,
Communication and Chilled Water.
Dear Sir,
We write in regard to the provision of information on MTA Project Utilit ies located around and
within MTB areas through your transmittal No.: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-TM L-06627 received on 09th
Dec 2019.
We have reviewed and examined the provided information/data and we would like t o draw your
attention to following issues:
- CAD drawings provided within the attached CD under above mentioned t ransmittal have the same
content/information that TCAJV had received via CMA letter "MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR11081" dated on 23/10/19, including only MTA Project shop drawings, not the As-Built Drawings as
requested by TCAJV, since Aug-2019. Our BIM team has been checking the provided CAD drawings
within the transmittal and confirmed that our standpoint regarding the modeling of MTA utilit ies is
still the same (please refer to attached e-mail from TCAJV-BIM Engineer - Attachment - 1), merely
due to absence of information. The hardcopies provided for MTA Project Site Inspection Records (L& T)
and survey readings are
scanned copies, mostly un-clear and un-readable layouts and do not include any clear survey reports.
Enclosed survey reports within the provided site inspection records show t he Leve ling Inst rument
readings only, without having the location and coordinates for where the level reading had been
taken (sample attached for your easy reference- Attachment- 2).
Thus, we kindly notify you that the provided information of the other contractors services/utilities
does not reflect the actual installation conditions and it has not been provided in a format or quality
allowing us to utilize or proceed, as requested on several occasions over the past 5 months, as we
have just been provided with scanned-hardcopies.
At this juncture we are compelled to remind you that we are not responsible to review and clarify
the site records of other contractors work in order to produce the as-built drawings on behalf of the

them. You as the Engineer have the contract ual obligation to review, clarify and validate all of the
other contractors work and supply TCAJV with the accurate information required from the as-built
drawings in a STANDARD, USABLE FORMAT that can be easily converted to 3D model in order to start
verifying the instructed grouting works via Bulletins 261.2 and 262.2 and prepare and submit all of
required shop drawings for approval, prior to commencing any site works.
Based on the above, we are unable to continue these works in alignment with the target program,
until such time the required information is provided for the instructed works, for which we reserve
our right under the provisions of the Contract Sub-Clauses 15.5.2 and 27.1.1 for additional time and
cost. Hence, we have no other option but to return the transmittal, as received, back to you
(Attachment- 3).
This is for your information, records and immediate action accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
