
Subject:

Commercial Disputes and Breach of Subcontract

Dear Sir,
We would like to emphasize on the above subject matter and further to our numerous meetings and
emails, included but not limited to those referred herewith, you are hereby informed of your continuous
failure to meet your contractual obligations and responsibilities and further failure to submit the
required RFVO Submissions within the time frame. So far, we have experienced the following
misconducts which could result to a breach of the Subcontract:
•
Despite our numerous requests, your commercial representative has never been fully mobilized
on the Site since the commencement date of the Subcontract and due to this reason many issues have
arisen. Please be informed that, your commercial representative is hard to reach and does not reply to
emails in a timely manner. Kindly be notified that your representative is showing unprofessional
behavior in the coordination and communication with our staff in many occasions. This is a failure of
your Subcontract Obligations, pursuant to the provisions under Clause 12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and particularly Clause 12.11.2, wherein “The
Subcontractor shall be responsible for its construction activities on the Site, and shall coordinate its own
activities with those of the Consultants and Other Subcontractors so as not to obstruct, disrupt or delay
work being performed by the Consultants and Other Subcontractors”;
•
As mentioned in our letter reference MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000486 dated 3 January 2018, your
direct communication with the Employer/Engineer without our knowledge is totally unacceptable and is
considered a breach of the Subcontract pursuant to Subcontract Agreement 14.9.3 [Subcontractor’s
Personnel] and 9.18.1 [Independent Subcontractor] which states that “The Subcontractor shall act as an
independent contractor in performing the Subcontract Works, maintaining complete control over its
employees and all Sub-subcontractors and shall in no case represent, or be the agent of, the Contractor
or act in the Contractor’s name without the prior written consent of the Contractor”.
•
Furthermore, your intention to stop the works due to the foregoing has come to our attention.
In the event whereby the aforementioned proves to be truthful and you indeed intend to stop the
works, then you will have to substantiate your entitlement to suspend the Works according to the
Subcontract Agreement Clause 23.1 [Subcontractor's Entitlement to Suspend Work]. Please note that if
you fail to present legitimate reasons for suspending the works, then as per Clause 22.2 [Termination by
Contractor for Subcontractor Default] you will be held fully responsible for breach of contract.
Consequently, you will be held fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such potential
breaches and the associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works under

the Contract with the Employer. We put on record the effects that may arise out of potentially multiple
breaches of the Subcontract provisions as per Clause 22.2.2 (c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by
Contractor for Subcontractor Default].
Moreover, your attention is brought to Clauses 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations], 8.1.1, 8.1.2, 8.1.3 and
8.1.4 [Reliance upon Subcontractor] and specifically to Clause 8.1.3 which states the following:
“The Subcontractor's duties, obligations and responsibilities under and in connection with the
Subcontract, and the Subcontractor's liability to the Contractor for the consequences of any breach of
the Subcontract, negligence or other default shall in no way be excused, waived, negated or diminished
by:
(a) any process of review, checking, inspection, examination, testing, monitoring or supervision which
may be carried out by the Contractor, the Contractor's Personnel, the Contractor's Affiliates, other
Consultants or any other persons appointed or authorized by the Contractor to carry out such tasks; or
(b) any acknowledgement, encouragement, approval or consent, or any comment, proposal, request,
notice, decision, direction, instruction or certificate which might be made, given or issued by the
Contractor or any of the aforementioned persons during the carrying out or as a consequence of such
tasks or on the recommendation or advice of the Subcontractor”.
In addition to the above, you are reminded that you are obligated to continue with the works pursuant
to the signed Collateral Warranty and Subcontract Clauses 12.9.3 [Subcontracting] and all relevant
provisions under Clause 8 [Subcontractor May Not Terminate Or Discontinue] Schedule 7-Part 1
[Subcontractor Collateral Warranty].
Furthermore, please refer to the Conditions of Contract Clause 20.3.11 [Variation Procedure] which
state “The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to defer, delay or suspend the carrying out of any of the
Subcontract Works (including any aspects and/or elements of the Subcontract Works which may be
affected by the Value Engineering Proposal or proposed Variation) whilst the Contractor considers
and/or the Parties discuss and endeavor to agree the Subcontractors proposals.”
In addition to the above, please be informed that an official issuance of Variation Orders for your
submitted RFVO’s, is pending with the Engineer. In the meantime, in the absence of the issuance of the
pending Variation Orders from the Engineer and as a gesture of good will, we have been certifying and
releasing on-account payments, as shown below:
The above figures clearly show that we have been assisting you financially by certifying more than what
you have been actually applying for. Although your cumulative progress application on Variations is
5,237,273 AED as of December 2017, we have made on-account payments as follows:
•
13,711,500 AED for Variations Orders; and
•
22,606,342.57 AED MOS related to Variations.
The above amounts sum up to 36,317,842.57 AED in total for on-account payments for Variations.
In addition to this, we did not reflect Engineer’s deductions on Variation MOS Payments in your
payment certifications. As of today, we have not received any Variation Order from the Engineer
regarding your outstanding RFVO’s. However, we have been issuing Variation Orders to you in order to
support you financially. Despite the issuance of Variation Orders No. 4, 5, 6 and 7 from our side, we have
not yet received the signed copies from you yet. You are well aware of the fact that the certification and
subsequently the payment of a Variation Order is subject to approval and signature of the Variation
Order from both Parties.

Apart from the abovementioned failures by you, with reference to our letter MTB/TCA/CCM/L/000507
dated 6 February 2018 and numerous correspondences and emails between the Parties, we write to
inform you that despite our efforts, the Exchange Rate used in the Engineer’s Assessments for all RFVOs
and consequently Variations Orders is determined as 4.30 AED/EUR by the Employer. We believe this is
fair and reasonable based on the rate fluctuations of the concerned period.
Consequently, be informed that any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred
by us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to proceed with the works
expeditiously and without delay will be solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement
Clauses including but not limited to 10.3 [Contractors Claims], 12.12.4 [Other Contractors and other
Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your immediate attention, compliance and further action.
Yours faithfully,
