Subject: Schematic design for Suspended Glass Structure
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letter LTR-02038 and advise that the Suspended Glass Structure is a Defined Provisional
Sum item (B ill 4/E).
The Contract requires the Engineer to issue his instructions for this Defined Provisional Sum item by no
later than the time " ... contemplated by the information release dates set out in the Bill of Quantities ...
"being
NTC + 365 days, approx .. 16 August 2013.
Such instructions should be given under an Engineer's Instruction, or Variation Order, and include the
approved supply and install tender for the selected subcontractor, the necessary designed Drawings,
Specifications, agreed commercial terms and whatsoever required to enable us to place a subcontract
with the selected tenderer.
The Contract does not define this DPS item as a Contractor supplied item or as Contractor designed
item. The Contract Documents include a 'Design Report Vol 3 of 4, Book 19 of 24- Light and
WaterConcept
Design and Proposal' as prepared by Carpenter I Lowings Architecture & Design {CLAD), in
which CLAD clearly state that the design is theirs and that Arup have assessed it for impact on
surrounding structures and seismic conditions. There is no Specification for this DPS item in the Contract
Documents.
Accordingly, we are unable to accept the supply of or any design liability for this item and accordingly
we shall not be pursuing the requests included in your referenced letter.
We respectfully request the Engineer to follow the agreed procedures for DPS Items and issue a full
package as summarized above that enables us to place a subcontract with the selected tenderer.
In the meantime, we will assist you where possible with the Employer's selected tenderers in workshops
on matters related to buildability, access, programme, etc., but not in matters of design.
In conclusion we will adhere to the Engineer's Instruction in due course to enter in to 'supply and install'
subcontract with the Employer's selected tenderer on the basis stated above.

Subject: Inconsistent Engineer's Review Comments Face Recognition (FR) System Low Level Design
Submittal
Dear Sir,
With reference to Engineer's action code 3 'Revise and Resubmit' in respect of 'Low Level Design
Document {LLD) - Face Recognition System (FR)', please be advise that comments forming the basis of
this action are not justified and contrary to the design and configuration of the FR System as set out in
Engineer's Instruction 294 ref. {2) above.
Moreover, the Engineer ought to be aware that the submitted LLD for FR System is consistent with the
design deviations expressly agreed with the Employer and recorded in Engineer's instruction ref. (2)
above.
A copy of the Employer approved design deviations as instructed in El-294 inclusive of Section 6 of
ATLAS Letter AST/TCAJV/TV/TD/0031 dated 4 February 2015 regarding 'Response to Technical
Compliance' is attached for your reference. With specific reference to Specification Sec. 272050
paragraph 2.11.B 'Computer and Server Equipment' the Employer agreed the following deviations:
"For point related to specific hardware redundancy and location inside MCR's; onlv LPR & FR supplied
subsystem will be rock mounted servers in SCR's as per Manufacturer's solution and system architecture
requirements recommendations for system performance and accuracy aspects." (Added emphasis).
Moreover this concept of FR severs in the SCR has already been approved in the FR NICD and SCR
Cabinet Layout Shop drawings. However, contrary to the above provisions the Engineer's comments in
the FR LLD included without
limitation the following:
"Page 9 of 52. Jpsotek VIS108FR-R-POE also known as the "Face Recognition Data Processing Units (FR
DPU)", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software in the SCR." and "lpsotek VI SFRDB-RC servers,
also known as the "FR Database {FRO 8} servers", are installed with Cognitec FaceVacs FR software and
lpsotek V/Suite VA software in the SCR."
"Contractor to move all servers to MCR or Data Center, reflect this in the document and resubmit.
Contractor to add load distribution on MCR and Data Center for the servers. Contractor to ensure to
update related documents if this impact approved SCR/MCR shop drawings." (Added emphasis)
These comments will effectively change the agreed FR system design in respect of the placement and
connectivity of the FR OPUs & FR DB Servers. As a result Atlas has stopped all further progress of these
Works until the above contemplated changes are addressed in a reasonable and rational manner. For
clarity and avoidance of doubt, such changes would result in below mentioned abortive works and
various impacts as follows:
a) Re-Design of MCR/DC Internal cabling Infrastructure including related MEP and SCN works to
support the equipment in the new location
b) Update & Re-submit all the approved Shop Drawings and NICD Document.
c) Procure; Install & Commission additional support infrastructure equipment
d) The following activities as per Program rev 10.2 will be delayed( not limited to. ):
Therefore, the Engineer is requested to urgently re-consider its comments forthwith and/or to further
elaborate upon the basis of the requested changes. Moreover, the above referenced Engineer actions

constitute a Variation which are not in the form of, or have been previously instructed in writing. To the
extent the above changes are required, you are requested pursuant to clause 20.1.4 (b) please issue
revised Drawings and/or Specification and an Engineer's Variation Order pursuant to clause 11.3.3 and
20.1.1 (a), respectively.
We reserve our rights to all additional costs and delays caused by the Engineer's disruptive comments.
Subject: Approval of Fire Life Safety Design and House of Expertise Responsibilities
Dear Sir,
We refer to your letters reference (11) and (12) above, and the copy of ADAC letter reference (10)
enclosed as part of your letter (12).
Sequence of Submittal Approvals
In respect of your query regarding the sequence of Submittal reviews and approval, kindly review and
return our submittals in the order in which the Submittals are submitted for approval. · We will alert
you in the event we require a different prioritization of the Submittals.
Clause 12.1.6 (k)
In respect of your comments regarding Clause 12.1.6 (k), be advised that failing to obtain an
Employer's Permit is a design error beyond the scope a Design Error capable of being identified by
Experience Contractor practices. All changes required to rectify such design errors are beyond the
capabilities of an Experienced Contractor. You are well aware that such capabilities are within the
reach of highly specialized fire and life safety consultancies. Please refer again to our self-explanatory
letter reference (8) above.
We note that in respect of giving notices, the matter of compliance with Applicable Law was raised
during tendering whereby ADAC confirmed to the bidders via Tender Bulletin 18, RFC-3319 to "Price in
accordance with the Employer's design. Any changes due to design code requirements will be
coordinated and discussed with the successful Tenderer." This should put to rest any doubts regarding
the reservation of our rights considering the absurd
allegations that 3 rd party HOE is a Contractor responsibility considering that the ADCD Permit for the
Works has yet to be approved and your unjustified comments regarding our obligations to scrutinize
numerous and unjustified reissuances of Fire Strategy Reports. The Tender Bulletins are expressly
incorporated into the Contract to clarify and resolve discrepancies
in the scope of the MTB Works. This was agreed between the TCA JV and ADAC to set limits to on the
physical scope Works and to establish accountability for further changes thereto.
You are well aware that the strategy report is the basis of the Employer's design and it has no use to
us until it is developed into designs and constructible IFC documents capable of being implemented
for the execution of the Works (i.e. steps 1 to 3 in the ADCD six-step process).
We note you have not yet confirmed if the strategy report revisions 11 will be the last. Such
confirmation would be a true indicator of ADCD's approval of the design and would signal our ability
to proceed with the IFC documents without risk of unjustified retributions and allegations of failure to
comply with Applicable Laws.
Responsibility for HOE
We disagree with your conclusion regarding the responsibility for engaging the third party HOE
Consultant as specified in the ADAC/ADCD agreed six-step process. Your statement referring to (10)

as confirming agreement by us to such process and MOU is not true.
The aforementioned ADAC letter confirms ADAC's compliance with ADAC's own agreement towards
ADCD and acknowledges ADAC's responsibility for doing so. It confirms and vindicates our numerous
objections that we are not party to the six-step process agreement and numerous notices that the
processes described in the ADAC/ADCD agreement relate to ADAC responsibility approval processes.
ADAC is so lely responsible for fulfilling the agreements is makes with any Governmental Authority,
including in this instance ADCD.
Therefore, ADAC's appointment of AON as a 3 rd Party HOE Consultant to comply with the terms of its
own agreement with ADCD in order to satisfy its own obligations for ADCD Permit for the Works in
compliance with fire and life safety codes is ADAC's sole responsibility including the consequences
arising there from. Please be advised that we are appointing our own independent consultant to ensure
that the Works
conforms to ADCD authorized documents and approvals.
We refuse any responsibility or accountability for the Third Party retained by ADAC and will respond to
ADAC's claim for the 3rd party HOE costs in due course.
Yours faithfully,
