
Dear Sir,

The Contractor writes with respect to the Architectural BoH and MEP scope of works within the Blue
Line platform and associated equipment rooms of the Ras Bu Abboud station. For the avoidance of
doubt, and with reference to the correspondence exchanged thus far, the Contractor sets out its
position as follows:

1.
The Contractor enquired for this first time in relation to the Day 1 Operations and fit-out
requirements of the said areas via the RFI of reference 7). The EA stated in its response that the
Contractor was responsible to deliver “the complete Fit-out for the whole of the Concourse level and
Gold Line Platform Level”.

2.
Both the minutes of reference 5) and the EA’s letter of reference 3) suggested that the Blue Line
would be non-operational during Phase 1, i.e. in line with the Contact documents and Tender
clarifications. In particular, the EA instructed the Contractor explicitly via letter reference 3) to “Fit out
double-concourse throughout and slab-over unused VT openings” and to “design but not fit out Blue
Line platforms”

3.
Having received the EA’s assurance on multiple occasions therefore, the Contractor advanced its
MEP self-perform proposal on the basis that MEP works would not be required for the Blue Line
platform at Ras Bu Abboud.

4.
As part of the Contractor’s self-perform proposal, the Contractor and the Employer also
addressed a number of cost saving proposals which later formed the basis of the Engineer’s Instruction
138. Within these qualifications of letter reference 2), the following statement was put forward:

“Deletion of OTE ductwork over the track area for future Blue Line. The same to be installed in future by
the appointed MEP subcontractor for completing the MEP works in the Blue line platform area”

The Contractor’s scope of works vis-a-vis the said areas is clearly limited to design only, which has been
duly undertaken and is progressing accordingly, in line with its contractual obligation. From several
discussions which have taken place the Contractor now understands that the Employer’s intent may
involve a non-revenue service with trains not stopping at the Blue Line platform for passenger boarding
or alighting. This non-revenue service may, however, be used for staff and / or goods transport to / from
the Ras Bu Abboud station.

In this event, the Contractor speculates that some fit-out works may in fact be required and it may be
the Employer’s intention to instruct these works to the Contractor, whether architectural or MEP. The
Engineer’s Assistant is therefore requested to kindly provide a clear direction as to the extent of the
scope that the Employer wishes the Contractor to undertake, and in the event that the non-revenue fitout is required, specific details as to the overall scope of works.

The implementation of any such requirement on site would constitute a Variation and upon receipt of
the Engineer’s Instruction, the Contractor shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13
[Variations and Adjustments] of Volume 3 of the Contract.

Yours faithfully,
