Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter (2), which includes an assessment of screed by your Third Party
Consultant. The assessment presented lacks detail and chronology of events related to the screed
subject.
To assist in a conclusive review of the screed subject you are requested to resubmit a comprehensive,
project specific screed assessment. As a minimum, the assessment must include:
• Introduction and background
• Details of investigations carried out, including crack analysis and type determination
• Statement on root cause of screed cracking
• Screed replacement and repair treatment proposals, including justification of any proposed
crack tolerances
• Changes introduced to materials and methods, including new screed mixes as part of your
mitigation strategy
• All corrective actions preventive steps taken and outcomes
• Details of the current status of the screed works and incidence of cracking,
• Inputs, recommendations and conclusions supported by Third Parties To ensure completeness, the
revised assessment is expected to be fully supported with appropriate
appendices, references and records.
We would appreciate your earliest response in resolving this matter.
Subject Clause 27.1.1- Notice of Claim Delay Notice No. 984- Engineer's Instruction No. 721
Passport Control Area Glass Partitions, Doghouse, OOG Left and Right, and Immigration/Emigration
Counter Components
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the above correspondence (1) wherein t he Contractor submitted Delay
Notice No. 984.
The Engineer highlights the Contractor's obligation to submit a fully detailed claim in accordance with
the requirements of Clause 27.1.5 within 42 days from the date of the events which alleged ly gave rise
to the alleged delay. Furthermore, the Contractor is also obligated to submit a Time Impact Analysis in
accordance with Clause 27.2.1 within 28 days in order to enable us to review any entitlement the
Contractor may have for there and/or cost.
In addition, the Contractor shall provide evidence that it took all reasonable steps to avoid or mitigate
the alleged delays as required under Clause 16.5.3 of the Conditions of Contract.
Compliance with the above stated contractual obligations is essential as this will form part of the basis
of the Engineer's assessment of the Contractor's submitted delaying events.
Yours faithfully,
