Subject:
Dear Sir,

Final Assessment of Total Cost Incurred up to 31st October 2017

Following several submissions and numerous meetings all referenced above regarding the auditing of
your submission of “Total Costs Incurred to 31st October 2017”, we hereby inform you that we have
concluded our final assessment and have enclosed a detailed breakdown for your information and
record.
Please note that the assessment was done based on two (2) categories, Category (1) Applied Summary
and Category (2) Payment Summary;
1.
Applied Summary – This is an Assessment based on the actual proof of Invoices that have been
verified as authentic and are related to the MTB Project (refer to items 3.1 to 3.12 on the summary
page).
Item 3: Materials - There is a significant variance due to 8,850m2 of duplicated glass as well as
the actual verified MIR quantities that include 20% Wastage.
Item 5: Project Management Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 6: Design & Engineering Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 9: Site Installation Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 94% % applied to
the total claimed amount.
Item 10: Production Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 95% % applied to the
total claimed amount.
2.
Payment Summary – This is an Assessment based on the actual proof of Payments that have
been verified despite the fact that Al Ghurair employed other facilities to pay for services and materials
for the project.
Item 11: Hired Labour Supply - The variance is due to fact that there is no link of Payments to
Invoices and no breakdowns of cheques have been provided.
Item 13: Materials - There is a significant variance due to 8,850m2 of duplicated glass as well as
the actual verified MIR quantities that include 20% Wastage.
Item 15: Project Management Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 16: Design & Engineering Cost – The variance is due to the actual staff attendance and the
actual incentives receipts submitted.
Item 19: Site Installation Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 94% % applied to
the total claimed amount.
Item 20: Production Labour – The variance is due to the agreed average of 95% % applied to the
total claimed amount.
We look forward to receiving your confirmation on the assessed amount in order to move ahead with
signing off of the Framework Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
