Subject:
Concrete Lid Slab under Escalators and Stairs at CP L2.0 Sectors 5.18 & 5.23 Employer’s
Request for Justification for Deviating from IFC Drawings
Dear Sir,
We refer to receipt of the Employer’s e-mail ref: (4) requesting an ‘official letter’ in support of the
reasons for us purportedly deviating from the original design of the ‘lid’ under the escalators and stairs
at L2.0 Sectors 5.18 and 5.23, following our successive requests to have you re-code the current Status
Code 3 responses our Shop Drawing Submittals, including those identified at ref: (1) to (3).
The history of events associated with this issue is convoluted and voluminous; a detailed narrative of
which is provided at Annex A hereto for your information and reference. However at its simplest:
•
The original IFC was unclear and failed to specify the type of material or system to be used for
the 2-hour fire resistance and whether for example it was gypsum or concrete or other material.
•
We raised RFI/0401/7941 on 15th March 2015, requesting further clarification which was
responded to on 17th March 2015, indicating a 2-hour fire resistance rated gypsum lid system, with
steel structural framing, in accordance with the details shown on the attached sketch drawing.
•
However, this was limited to the escalators and stairs at CP L2.0 Sector 5.23.
•
As regards the escalators and stairs at CP L2.0 Sector 5.18, we used the Briefing Pack (BP) 12 and
16 meetings as an opportunity to request further clarification for the system required there also.
However, despite being provided with sketches which also indicated a 2-hour fire rated lid system under
the escalator and stairs, these failed to provide an indication on the material to be used.
•
We were reliably informed that a new Bulletin reflecting the Employer’s requirements would be
issued to us under cover of an Engineer’s Instruction. Kindly refer to Meeting Minutes for BP12 and BP
16 held on 30 August 2016, which states “all other outstanding arch sketches mentioned in the above
list [which included ‘North elevator underside detail] … will be issued in a new bulletin”.
•
However this failed to materialise.
•
Nevertheless, we had further meetings with you/the Employer where it was agreed to proceed
with a 2-hour fire rated concrete instead of a gypsum material in both locations at CP L2.0 (i.e. Sector
5.18 and Sector 5.23). The main reasons for this decision [agreed jointly] are:
the significant heavy load of the GRC arrival tunnel above;
works are expedited using concrete instead of gypsum and can be constructed faster; and
MEP services can be readily suspended from a concrete lid system but not from gypsum.
•
Consequently, absent the receipt of any updated IFC Drawings from you, and in order to
progress the work and mitigate any potential delay, our Shop Drawings were developed incorporating
the 2-hour fire resistance rated concrete lid as agreed. This has been subsequently constructed.
•
Unfortunately, the relevant Shop Drawing Submittals, identified at ref: (1) to (3), were returned
Status Code 3, requesting a 2-hour fire rated gypsum lid system. Clearly, you have overlooked the fact
that the RFI response was superseded and replaced by a 2-hour fire rated concrete lid system.

•
Meanwhile, the associated MEP Shop Drawings which incorporate the 2-hour fire rated
concrete lid system constructed, have received Status Code 2. This also applied to our Structural
Calculations submitted via DS/0401/11842, which similarly reflect the agreed 2-hour fire rated concrete
lid at the locations discussed herein (namely CP Level L2.0, Sectors 5.18 and 5.23).
The situation we now face is this: despite having discussed the above with you and the Employer on
many occasions and requesting you to re-code the Status Code 3 Shop Drawing Submittals, this has
failed to materialise. In the meantime, we are now faced with a situation where, because of the Code 3
status, there exists numerous open Work Inspection Requests (WIRs) which are required to be closed so
that we can finalise the works. This also applies to NCR-01011 dated 13th November 2018.
We therefore request your kind assistance to re-code the Shop Drawing Submittals identified herein to
Status Code 2 or higher, and do so urgently. This will enable us to close the relevant WIRs and NCR.
Thank you for your kind assistance.
Yours faithfully,
