Dear Sir,

This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute a variation. The nature and extent of the variation is provided below.
The following Employer's Requirements:

Volume 6, Sub-Clause 13.3.4.6 a) ii Delete the following Sub-Clause:

"50% of the lighting luminaries shall be equipped with batteries (self-contained) for 1.5 hours, to avoid
total darkness in the event of failure of the normal power supply."

And replace with the following:

Within the tunnel, fifty percent (50%) of the lighting luminaires shall be powered by the Uninterrupted
Power Supply (UPS) system (provided by Systems, Rolling Stock and Trackwor k Contractor) to provide
the minimum required luminance level for 1.5 hours.

The Contractor shall provide the power cables from the UPS Sub-Main Distribution Board (USMDB) to
the local UPS Distribution Boards (UDBs) and from UDBs to the luminaries. Both power cables shall be
Low Smoke Zero Halogen (LSOH) according to IEC 61034 and IEC 60754, Fire Rated/Resistive according
to IEc 60331 and Steel Wire Armoured (SWA).
Volume 6, Sub-Clause 13.3.4.6 a) iv Delete the following Sub-Clause:

"30% of the cross passage lighting luminaries shall be equipped with self-contained batteries (selfcontained - non maintained) for 1.5 hours, to avoid total darkness in the event of failure of the normal
power supply."

And replace with the following:

Within the cross passages, thirty percent (30%) of the lighting luminaires shall be powered by the
Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) system (provided by Systems, Rolling Stock and Trackwork
Contractor) to provide the minimum required luminance level for 1.5 hours.

The Contractor shall provide the power cables from the UPS Sub-Main Distribution Board (USMDB) to
the local UPS Distribution Boards (UDBs) and from UDBs to the luminaries . Both power cables shall be

Low Smoke Zero Halogen (LSOH) according to IEC 61034 and IEC 60754, Fire Rated/Resistive according
to IEc 60331 and Steel Wire Armoured (SWA).

Yours faithfully,
