SUBJECT NOTICE OF DELAY N0.38 (Lack of Access and Manpower Disruption)
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and further to our Subcontract Agreement reference # SC 039/B
(MTB/TCA/CLOISALL/L/0050) dated 2ih October 2014 for Ceiling Works, kindly be informed that
Closiall was encumbered by several events encountered throughout the execution of the project and
attributed to the JV's default, particularly the Lack of access and/or non-compheransive (partial)
access.
The existence of this delaying event(s), therefore has affected the Cloisall's ability to act in accordance
with the Subcontract Agreement in respect of its planned progress due to reasons beyond its control,
which in return has prevented the achievement of the Subcontract Completion by the date specified
in the Subcontract Agreement.
The JV issued to Closiall its revised Baseline Programme rev.OG, which included the planned access
dates that will be provided by the JV to Cloisall in a timely manner for executing its Scope of Works.
Relaying on these dates, Cloisall had planned its team, workforce, .... etc in the required manner to
follow the Contractor's planned sequence.
However, the JV failed to comply with its Programme and in return wasn't able to provide Cloisall
with the access in a proper timely manner in line with its Baseline Programme rev.06; causing Cloisall
to suffer delays beyond its control and disturbing its work progress as illustrated in the attached site

photos.
Such a failure by the JV is an action and/or inaction which is in contrary to the Subcontract Conditions,
the Subcontract Conditions states that 'the Contractor shall give the Subcontractor right of access to
all parts of the Site within the time (or times) stated in Schedule 1 (Subcontract Particulars) .... '
pursuant to Sub-Clause 10.1.1, which wasn't complied by the JV.
In addition to that the Specifications Section 095135 Item 1.9 calls for an enclosed and weathertight
environment as a prerequisite prior to the installation of the custom metal pan ceilings and walls .
Therefore, in the absence of such conditions the provided access (if any) is considered as
noncomprehensive
(partial) access.
On the other hand, the Subcontractor's contractual obligations include the arrangements for the
engagement of all staff and labour, local or otherwise, and for their payment, housing, feeding and
transport pursuant to Sub-Clause 14.1.
Accordingly, if Closiall suffers critical delay and/or incurs Cost as a result of the JV's failure to provide
right of access in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Clause 10.1, for a reason(s) which has
noncontractual
burden and attributed to the JV's default, Closiall shall be entitled subject to Sub-Clauses
10.1.6, 16.5 (Extension of Time for Completion), 21.2 (Adjustments to the Subcontractors Price), 27.1
(Subcontractors Claims), and 27.2 (Time Impact Analysis) to an extension of the Subcontract Time for
Completion for any such delay and payment of any incurred and/or associated Cost(s) pursuant to
Sub-Clause 10.1.4.
Without any prejudice to our contractual entitlement, Cloisall hereby requests the JV to be officially
provided with the accurate anticipated access dates to all work fronts. These dates will enable Cloisall
to properly plan, programme, manage and commence the works in a productive manner and
complying with Specification Section 095135, 1.9 Project Conditions. It is therefore imperative to have
these dates to avoid any further delays and to minimize the incurred costs.
In light of the above and pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 of the Sub-Contract Conditions, Cloisall is
hereby reserve its right for claiming an Extension of Time and the reimbursement of any associated
costs attributable to such delaying event(s), inclusive of any disruptive costs resulting from loss of
productivity and/or idle manpower.
Meanwhile, Cloisall continues to comply with its contractual obligations in respect to the mitigation
measurements through the implemented action(s), which is coordinated with the JV, for minimizing
the associated costs.
Cloisall would appreciate that the above matters are being properly addressed so we can jointly
proceed with minimizing delays to this project.
Subject: Progress of Prl Works- Notice of Delay (IV)
Dear Sir,
Further to the Contractor's delay notices referenced above and issued in respect of the Prl lack of
progress, the Contractor reiterates its concerns in relation to the Subcontractor's continuous lack of
performance.
For example, the Contractor records the Subcontractor's inability to undertake site measurements,

procure and deliver the required flashings for the Prl. As of the date of this correspondence, the
Subcontractor fabricated the same pressing four times being in every instance unsuitable for
installation;
this cannot be understood by the Contractor. Be reminded that the Contractor should be able to rely
upon
the Subcontractor's professional expertise, skill, care and judgement in relation to all matters
concerning
the execution of the Subcontract Works; hence, the Subcontractor continuously and repeatedly failing
to
monitor and correct its fabrication process is simply not acceptable.
The Contractor takes this opportunity to remind the Subcontractor that the control sample should have
been completed by 15 December 2017 and yet three months after the actual completion date for this
benchmark remains unknown.
The Contractor reiterates that its rights under the provisions of Clause 10.3 [Contractor's Claims] and
Clause 16.6 [Delay Damages] of the Conditions of Subcontract are reserved.
Yours faithfully,
