Stuart Matthews
Project Director
Enclosure:

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to the issuance of Variation Order No 16
reference 2 above and several previous communication between us, instructing you to proceed with the
subject works, we regret to inform you that you have failed to do so.
Furthermore, it is noted that the situation has not improved despite our recurrent instructions to
proceed with the works without any delay. Unfortunately, we record that you have failed to carry out
any of these instructions, and the activities on site are continuing to worsen in regards to unrecoverable
slippages and time delays which subsequently will affect the entire activities.
Evidently, you are reminded that you were aware of the key dates to be achieved as these dates were
enclosed to our previous correspondence and communication and you were instructed to view them
against your progressed Programme and proceed with the works expeditiously and without delay.

On account of such failure, we now have the right to give notice to you terminating the Subcontract
(under Clause 22.2.2 (b), (c), (d), (f), (g) & (i) [Termination by Contractor for Subcontractor Default], or
omit section(s) of the Subcontract Works under Clause 22.2.4. We hereby confirm and notify you, that
we are proceeding initially to omit the abovementioned sections of Subcontract Works and we expressly
reserve the right to subsequently notify of further omissions of sections of the Subcontract Works, on
account of your failure to proceed with the works.
In view of the above, pursuant to Clause 11 .3 [Instructions of the Contractor] we hereby issue an official
instruction for the Total Omission of the Supply and Installation of Lighting Lozenges Subsequent to the
Benchmark approval at Central Processor L0.0 issued with VO 16 from your Scope of Works under the
Contract. The above mentioned Contractor’s Instruction is issued in the form of a Negative Variation
Order No 16.1 as per Clause 20 [Variations and Adjustments] amounting to an Omission of AED 6,837,389.85 (Six Million Eight Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand Three Hundred Eighty Nine Dirhams and
Eight Five Fils).
This notice and the omission of sections of the Subcontract Works are without prejudice to all of our
other rights under the Contract and at law, including our right to instruct further subsequent omissions.
Moreover, the terms and conditions of the Subcontract Agreement shall also apply to this Variation
Order No 16.1 for De-scoping the said Works.
The provisions of Sub-Clauses 22.3 [Consequences of Termination for Subcontractor Default] to 22.5
[Payment after Termination for Subcontractor Default] of the Conditions of Subcontract shall apply to
the omitted section, as if the Subcontract had been terminated in respect of such section. As such, you
are required to comply with them.
Additionally, be informed that this Negative Variation Order No 16.1 has no time implications in respect
of the Subcontract Works.
Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.
Yours faithfully,
