Subject:

Re: Design Responsibility

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) above where you have commented on the element of
design and the responsibility for the design within your scope and we would like to comment as follows:
For the avoidance of doubt and for the purpose of interpretation, the sections of the Specification
provided below, which form part of your Subcontract Agreement which state “Contractor” shall be read
as “Subcontractor”.
Your attention is drawn to the Clauses under the Specification Section 084126, Section 1.4 [Performance
Requirements], A1, A2a, A2b, A2c (General).
Specifically, A1 clearly states that you are “responsible for the design of connections and fixings for allglass assemblies and related elements, including interfaces and coordination with work of adjoining
trades, to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements in accordance with the Contract
Documents”.
Additionally, the abovementioned section of the Specification Clause A2 further states that “As scope
and performance documents, the Drawings and Specifications do not necessarily indicate or describe in
detail all work required for the full performance and completion of the Works. Contractor is responsible
for developing and completing the design in accordance with the Contract Documents, and shall provide
all items required for proper completion of the Works without adjustment to the Contract price”.
Furthermore, a field survey is required by the Subcontractor to provide accurate shop drawings, submit
for approval, and then order material with the correct dimensions, prior to commencing with the works.
According to your Subcontract obligations and as per Clause 12.1.1 [The Subcontractor’s General
Obligations] “[…] The parts of the Subcontract Works that the Subcontractor designs must, when the
Subcontract Works are completed:
(a) be fit for the purpose for which they are intended as specified in the Subcontract; and

(b) be free from any defects in design, workmanship, or materials”.
In regards to your statement about the respective comments and codes given on shopdrawings, please
be advised that in the event that you disagree with any of our comments, then you have the right to
challenge these comments and provide a response to validate your position accordingly.
In view of the above, you are requested to comply with your Subcontract obligations and perform your
duties with due diligence.
This is for your information, records and compliance.
Yours faithfully,
