
Subject:Re: Notice of Delay; TCAJV Target Programme to Completion Rev.1 0.4; Outstanding Preceding
Works by Other
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letters referenced (1 to 2) above in which you are alleging that you have
suffered delays due to obstructions by others. Please be informed that we acknowledge the fact that
some of your works are affected by others, however, we put on record that there have been enough
available work-fronts for you to proceed.
Therefore, we refute your statement that you were unable to progress with your works and inform you
that there have been enough available work-fronts for you to proceed but you failed to do so, due to
shortage of resources (i.e. lack of manpower) and lack of coordination. The available work-front areas at
the dates your letters were written, were as follows:
•
CP; 3 out of 7 Holdroom desks, podium and cabinets were available to proceed;
•
CP; Check in rear storage units and luggage tub storage was ready and available for you to
proceed;
•
CP; Pre-immigration info panels and desks were ready and available for you to proceed;
•
CP; 6 out of 13 of the emigration canopies and desks were completed in the middle of
November 2018, hence were ready and available for you to proceed;
•
CP; Level 2 and 3 of camera poles have been ready and available for you to proceed;
•
CP; Level 1 and below of baggage reclaim carousel cladding has been ready and available for you
to proceed;
•
CP; Baggage reclaim carousel cladding has been ready and available for you to proceed;
•
CP; Airport service counters have been ready and available for you to proceed;
•
CP and Piers; Most of the works have been completed (2 remaining) of the Booth search, thus
ready and available for you to proceed;
•
In addition to the above, check in counters nr. 4, 5, 6 which are major works have been ready
and available for you to proceed;
It is evident that your lack of resources i.e. lack of manpower and supervision which you have been
instructed to increase numerous times but failed to do so, is causing delays and affecting the works.
Specifically, the number of manpower has been insufficient for a considerable amount of time,
considering the volume of works on site. You are required to have enough manpower to be able to
coordinate the works on site with our construction team. Currently, due to the fact that you manpower
is limited, it has been observed that you are unable to properly coordinate your works with our
construction team, as per your Subcontract obligations.
Therefore, you are requested to increase your manpower and coordinate your works pursuant to Clause
12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] to work on all available work-fronts to avoid any
delays. This can be established by means of continuous communication with our construction team and
other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely commencement and completion of the works.
We always remain available to assist you by all possible means to progress in all areas satisfactorily and
ensure that the target programme dates are met throughout the project. As mentioned above, this can
only be done with your cooperation and adequate communication which in some cases is not sufficient.

This is for your information and necessary action.
Yours faithfully,
