Dear Sir,
Further to the Client's letter reference 1), the Consultant is hereby instructed to proceed with the
implementation in the design of the changes as described in the enclosed MSI ICD Register Group 2 and
3 Classifications, as a result of the ongoing interfacing process with MSI and in order to ensure
compliance with MSI functionalrequirements.

The design group changes are defined as follows:

First Stage:
Group 1 Design Changes - These changes will be incorporated in the DD2 Arc/Str/MEP deliverables
which will be submitted according to the Design Programme issued on 23 November 2015 with letter
reference M006- ATK-COM-LTR-00826.

Second Stage:
Group 2 Design Changes - The design changes that affect the MEP pricing will be incorporated before
the issuance of the MEP Tender Bulletin. The BIM models must be updated to include the Group 2
Design changes, and the updated BIM model will be issued to the Architectural Branding Consultant on
03 January 2016 to enable the start of the M3 design.

Third Stage:
Group 3 Design Changes - These design changes will be incorporated upon the confirmation of the
Engineer or the Client.

We confirm that this instruction is given pursuant to Sub-Clause 4.4 [Variations] of the Agreement.
Accordingly, the Consultant is requested to submit a proposal for this variation pursuant to Sub-Clause

4.4.2. Upon receipt thereof, the Client shall make a fair adjustment to the Agreed Compensation in
accordance with Sub-Clause
4.4.1.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Consultant is reminded of its obligations under Sub-Clauses 4.4.4 - 4.4.7
of the Agreement and is hereby informed that the urgent incorporation of these instructions to the
design is of vital importance for the timely completion of the Works.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarificatio '
Dear Sir,

The Client refers to letter 1) whereby the Consultant requested a formal direction for a) the design of
the concourse slab for Al Sadd Station in the FoH public toilets areas and b) incorporation of MSI
requirements for openings at concourse slab .

Further to the above, the Client directs the Consultant as follows:

a)
The Consultant is hereby instructed to make provisions (recesses) of 250mm depth in the
concourse slab of Al Sadd Station for the drains in the FoH public toilets areas marked-up on the
enclosed Public Facilities Floor Plan at Al Sadd concourse level, considering the drain locations from the
signed-off ICD reference M006-GDB-ARC-ICD-00006 Rev.3.

Moreover, the Consultant is expected to optimize the width of these recesses in correlation with the
drainage Design.

b)
The Consultant is hereby instructed to incorporate in the design the two openings in the AlSadd
concourse slab at gridlines T-2 and T-3 highlighted in blue on the enclosed layout, as a result of the
ongoing interfacing process with MSI and in order to ensure compliance with MSI
functionalrequirements.

In addition, the Consultant is informed that this instruction amends the size and location of the
corresponding openings at gridlines T-2 and T-3 from MSl's ICD 00066 previously instructed by the Client
under letter reference 2).

The Client confirms that this instruction is given pursuant to Sub-Clause 4.4 (Variations] of the
Agreement. Accordingly, the Consultant is requested to submit a proposal for this variation pursuant to
Sub-Clause 4.4.2. Upon receipt thereof, the Client shall make a fair adjustment to the Agreed
Compensation in accordance with Sub-Clause 4.4. 1.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Consultant is reminded of its obligations under Sub-Clauses 4.4.4 - 4.4. 7
of the Agreement and is hereby informed that the urgent incorporation of these instructions to the
design is of vital importance for the timely completion of the Works.

Regarding the openings in the Al Sadd concourse slab at gridlines W-14 and W-15 marked-up on the
layout enclosed in the Consultant's letter reference 1), the Consultant is informed that these changes
were instructed by the Client under letter reference 2). No further amendment to these openings is
currently foreseen.
Yours faithfully,
