Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0089
Overdue Responses to 728 Shop Drawings as at 2 May 2019 including but not limited to Mechanical,
Electrical Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Public Address and Turnstile and Road Marking Shop Drawings etc.
[issued vide 211 Submittals]
Dear Sir
Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the
same.
The Event(s):
In the period between 20 November 2018 and 25 April 2019, we submitted 211 Shop Drawing
Submittals containing 728 Shop Drawings in relation to 23 different packages (including Mechanical,
Electrical Fire Alarm, Fire Fighting, Public Address, Turnstile and Road Marking etc.] for your review and
approval, in the manner recorded in the attachments included at Annex A and Annex B hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our submittals. On the basis that each of the Shop
Drawings Submittals listed in Annex B are shown to be between Rev. 00 and Rev. 2 and higher, then
these ought to have been responded to by you 21, 14 and 7 calendar days later. However, the
information recorded in Annex B and summarised in Annex A shows that at the cut-off date associated
with this E-Notice (2 May 2019), you have exceeded and at that point were continuing to exceed the
review periods expressly stipulated in the Contract by upwards of 156 calendar days.

We further record that there are an additional four Shop Drawing submittals listed in Annex A and B
(relating to the Precast and Reinforced Concrete Works) that were submitted prior to the ‘Effective
Date’ included in SAA8 [4 September 2018] that have still to be responded to also. This cannot possibly
be construed as forming part of or ‘Included Circumstances’ (per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8) and will be
included within any forthcoming Time Impact Analysis, albeit in recognition of the Effective Date
included in SAA8, any delays will be analysed from 4 September 2018 onwards.
Potential Impact:
Your prompt approval of the aforementioned Shop Drawings is an essential requisite in enabling us
obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone No.
MS09B. Consequently, any late and overdue responses to our Shop Drawings, including those listed in
Annexes A and B, has the potential to impact our ability to achieve Substantial Completion.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Accordingly, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
