Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0102
Delays due to ADDC Rejection of Electrical Design: Wet Areas – Weather Proof Sockets for Urinal Flash
Control Sockets / Auto Tap / Dishwasher
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described herein
may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and accordingly seek your swift resolution of the same.

The Event(s):
In the period between 10 April 2019 and 9 May 2019, the Abu Dhabi Distribution Company (ADDC)
undertook a series of inspections on the dates and in the manner identified in Table 1 below.
Table 1
Item Inspection Date Case ID ADDC Comments
1
10-Apr-19
6711880540 ‘Excluded. Drug recovery toilet. Spur outlet exposed to wet
services shall be WP outlet.’
2
21-Apr-19
5854585634 ‘... outlet shall be away from water source.
Janitor room outlet shall be weather proof.’
3
02-May-19
2192497968 ‘Excluded. Wet area WP outlets to be provided. Drinking
fountain outlet location not proper.’
4
09-May-19
2593450389 ‘Auto Urinal Flush controller, MLC Shade Motor’
Details pertaining to each of these Case IDs are appended hereto at Annex A.
However, in every case, the electrical installations have been rejected by ADDC for the reasons that
include those identified and reproduced in Table 1 above, which primarily relate to wet areas and a
purported failure of the installations to comply with applicable Electrical Wiring Regulations.
We remind you that we have constructed the works in accordance with the IFC Drawings reflecting a
design for which the Employer’s Design Consultant [KPF] is unequivocally responsible for, not us.
However, it is clear there is a fundamental variance and disparity between the IFC Design [which we
have constructed the works in accordance with] and the applicable codes and regulations governing the
electrical design [for which the Employer’s Design Consultant, KPF, is responsible for] and against which
ADDC is inspecting the works; hence the reason for its rejection of the electrical installations.
Unfortunately this scenario is not new – but we are being unfairly targeted and our works rejected due
to distinct failure on your and / or the Employer’s part to liaise with ADDC and resolve design related
issues – specifically associated with an NOC issued by ADDC in or around February 2015 [four + years
ago] agreeing to the relaxation of the ADDC approval process. In short, this relaxation meant that we
would no longer be required to submit shop drawings to ADDC for approval but had been expressly
directed by you to proceed with the electrical services installations based on approved shop drawings;
which at the risk of being repetitive, were developed from and based upon the IFC Design.
Moreover, in light of ADDC's comments in relation to compliance stated in the NOC coupled with the
fact that as part of the relaxation of the ADDC approval process, ADAC accepted responsibility for any
issues arising therefrom, and we advised that we would not be held accountable or responsible for any
comments from ADDC inspectors for any purported non-compliance with ADWR 2009, nor ADWR 20141
or any ADDC preferential requirements for the electrical installations during Stage 3 or 4 of the ADDC
inspection and approval process. We have previously written to you on this matter including inter alia
our letters dated 15 May 2018, 30 August 2018 and 2 September 2018 (refs. 2, 3 and 4).
However, this has clearly been ignored and continues to be ignored; evidenced by ADDC’s rejection of
the electrical installations; including without limitation the Case IDs summarized in Table 1 above.
We remind you that the subject of wet and damp area has been discussed variously between us and
culminated in the issuance on 24 July 2018 of Engineer’s Instruction No. 749 (via your letter dated 23
July 2019, ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-09749) instructing us to upgrade elements of the electrical
design. However, having followed your Instruction (EI No. 749) we note that the foregoing comments
from ADDC identified in Table 1, is out of the scope of the exercise and definition of the wet areas.
We are therefore appreciably disappointed to find out yet again that the Engineer is not taking any
proactive action to resolve these types of rejections but leaves it to us solve the problem with ADDC;
this takes time, added to which, is severely disrupting our progress and that of our subcontractors.
If the Form 4 inspection process continues to be affected on the grounds of electrical design related
matters, which are out with our scope of works and responsibility and is not addressed forthwith

between the Employer/Employer’s Design Consultant and ADDC, then this will continue to prevent
energization of the final Distribution Boards and resultantly will have a direct and consequential effect
on the inspection process and similarly effect the project testing and commissioning schedule.
We urge you to ensure the issue is resolved between the Employer’s Design Consultant and ADDC.
Potential Impact:
ADDC’s rejection of the electrical installations in respect of the above noted Case IDs is preventing the
completion of the ADDC inspection process, which will knock on and delay energisation of critical areas
of the Project, and will invariably impact on our ability to hand over the affected areas. If the matter
continues and is not addressed, then this will impact our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B.
Moreover, this will invariably continue to knock on and delay achievement of Milestone MS09C.
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may be applicable
to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are resolved within ten (10) days from the date of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses
16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to the Time
for Completion and any associated costs due to the event(s) and circumstances described herein.
Yours faithfully,
