Dear Sir,
This is a direction under Sub-Clause 13.2.1 for the Contractor to submit a quotation that shall include
both price
and any potential time impact for a proposed Variation by the Engineer regarding work under the
contract. The Variation as proposed:
The following Emplover's Requirements:

Volume 6, Sub-Clause 13.3.4.6 a) ii
Delete the following Sub-Clause:

"50% of the·lighting luminaries shall be equipped with batteries (self-contained) for 1.5 hours, to avoid
total darkness in the event of failure of the normal power supply."

And replace with the following :
Within the tunnel, fifty percent (50%) of the lighting luminaires shall be powered by the Uninterrupted
Power Supply (UPS) system (provided by Systems, Rolling Stock and Trackwork Contractor) to provide
the minimum required luminance level for 1.5 hours.

The Contractor shall provide the power cables from the UPS Sub-Main Distribution Board (USMDB) to
the local UPS Distribution Boards (UDBs) and from UDBs to the luminaries. Both power cables shall be
Low Smoke Zero Halogen (LSOH) according to IEC 61034 and IEC 60754 , Fire Ratedf Resistive according
to IEc 60331 and Steel Wire Armoured (SWA).

Volume 6, Sub-Clause 13.3.4.6 a) iv Delete the following Sub-Clause:

"30% of the cross passage lighting luminaries shall be equipped with self-contained batteries (selfcontained - non maintained) for 1.5 hours, to avoid total darkness in the event of failure of the normal
power supply."

Louis Berger @ egis rail
LB ER JV

And replace with the following:

Within the cross passages, thirty percent (30%) of the lighting luminaires shall be powered by the
Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) system (provided by Systems, Rolling Stock and Trackwork
Contractor) to provide the minimum required luminance level for 1.5 hours.

The Contractor shall provide the power cables from the UPS Sub-Main Distribution Board (USMDB) to
the local UPS Distribution Boards (UDBs) and from UDBs to the luminaries. Both power cables shall be
Low Smoke Zero Halogen (LSOH) according to IEC 61034 and IEC 60754, Fire Rated/Resistive according
to !Ee 60331 and Steel Wire Armoured (SWA).
The Contractor shall submit the quotation within 14 days from receipt of this direction.

Yours faithfully,
