Subject:Notice of Backcharge – Provision of Internet Access Facility on Site Offices Located in CP & Piers
Dear Sir,
We write with regards to the above subject for your attention.
In line with our support to the Subcontractors who have requested the provision of internet access
facility on site offices in order to enhance the communication while carrying out the works, we have
established the above facility since July 2015 and it has been utilised by your staff since then. In
addition, please be advised we work closely with the service provider and provided our supporting
staff/manpower resources to maintain this facility uninterrupted for all the users’ convenience from
time to time. Subsequently, we have incurred significant cost in stages for this facility as summarised
below for your information:
Stage 1. Initial Cost. Infrastructure/hardware set up (see attached).
Stage 2. Recurring Cost. Monthly rental, staff/manpower resources for running and maintenance cost
(see attached).
Stage 3. Removal Cost. Subsequent dismantling/removal cost of infrastructure etc. that expected to take
place during hand over period, cost information shall be available in due course.
At present, we note you have numerous users/employees on site as indicated on the enclosed list, we
intent to charge a monthly rate of AED 100/user from you and all the users from other Subcontractors
involved concurrently from the date this facility was utilised, until such time that abovementioned costs
are fully recovered. Meanwhile, you may refer to the attached information with regards to the initial

and recurring cost that we have incurred to date; the relevant detail breakdown shall be available upon
request. Please note the removal cost shall be available in due course.
We hereby notify you of our intention to backcharge the aforementioned cost from your interim
payments in accordance to Conditions of Subcontract Agreement Clauses 10.3 (Contractor’s Claim), in
order to recover our cost/expenses plus our mark-up OHP% for the provision of this service. We shall
inform you the total cost in order to finalise the relevant portion of amount to be reimbursed from your
account in due course.
We hope the above clarifies the situation.
Yours faithfully,
