Subject: Delays to the Time for Completion of the Works due to Subsidence
Dear Sir
Midfield Terminal Building- General Contractor
This letter serves as an update to our Delay Notice No. 0098 issued by way of letter ref: (1).
We write with reference to receipt of the various subsidence related Engineer's Instructions listed in
Annex A hereto (ref: 2), and in consideration of the delayed, uncoordinated and ongoing release of
instructions from you defining the scope of soil rectification works listed therein, combined with the fact
that these works are now extending well outside the zone of influence of the sewers (our letter ref: 3 is
particularly relevant to this issue), not to mention the fact that the subsidence is continuing to occur to
the sub-building infrastructure, then the effects of delay arising therefrom are continuing to impact
upon
the Time for Completion.

We take this further opportunity in reminding you that as noted in numerous letters, including inter alia
letter ref: (4), as well as recorded in the recent Post-SAA8 Consolidated TIA Presentation held on 31 July
2019, the SAA8 was only executed on the basis that a Supplemental Agreement [dealing with payments
and the responsibility of TCA JV for the subsidence remediation work] was to have been issued within
weeks of that execution. You will note that based on these representations, and acting on the utmost
good faith, we agreed to the inclusion of Clause 5 and proceeded with the remediation works on the
understanding a Supplemental Agreement would be issued. However, the Employer has still not
executed the Supplemental Agreement despite our repeated requests for him to do so.
Therefore by copy of this letter to ADAC, we urge the Employer to issue a Supplemental Agreement that
reflects the current situation without any further delay.
Subject Notice of Delay to Milestone MS9C
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to the Contractor's Baseline Programme Rev 11.2 dates (Appendix E - Level
One Programme) of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (SAA8L and in particular in
relation to Milestone MS9C, and hereby record that based on the current progress and outstanding
works it is unlikely that the Contractor will achieve the contractual Milestone MS9C Completion Date
of 31 October 2019.
According to the updated Programme for the month ending June 2019 (1) in addition to the
Contractor's reporting in both the Weekly Progress and Principals' Meetings, the Contractor maintains
no delays towards Milestone MS9C, despite the significant delays to the MTB Project. The Contractor
continues to report that Milestone MS9C will be achieved by 31 October 2019 and appears to be
stacking the remaining activities and modifying the updated Programme logic but without providing
the supporting justification.
The Engineer has rejected the updated Programme via (1) due to the misreporting on the various
contractual milestones and the noncompliance of these updates to the Programme Project Controls
Requirements.
The Contractor is further referred to the Engineer's letter (2L where notification was provided to the
Contractor on its failure to meet Milestone MS9B and the risk of not achieving Milestone MS9C.
Despite the fact that the Contractor has reported that MS9B's forecast completion date will be 15
October 2019, the Contractor has not substantiated how it intends to achieve this.
The Contactor is further referred to the ongoing discussions in the Risk Committee Meetings
requesting for a realistic plan to complete various outstanding works such as but not limited to
FOB/Isolators energization, Cause and Effect testing, Room Completion, As Builts, ; tc. l,
~elof2
Moreover, the Engineer has collated a list in Attachment 1 (which is not exhaustive) of the MTB's
major remaining works as to meet MS9C and based on a cut-off date of 26 July 2019. In view of the
current rate of progre£5 and the amount of work required to be completed in Attachment 1, it is
unlikely that the Contractor will achieve the contractual date of Milestone MS9C.
As the current Programme is deemed to be unrealistic, we reiterate that the Employer and the
Engineer will not be in a position to rely upon the Contractor's submitted updated Programmes for
any planning, monitoring and stakeholder reporting purposes.
The Contractor shall therefore remain responsible for all the delays that occurred and we reiterate our
request for the Contractor to submit a revised recovery Programme in accordance with Sub-Clause
16.4.1 of the Conditions of Contract.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights pursuant to Clause 10.3 and Clause 16.6 of the Conditions of
Contract for the delays to the Project's Completion Date.

Subject Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0108
Cross Ref
Dear Sir,
Engineer's Late and Unreasonable Comments to RFI/0401/16986 for Access
Ramps for BHS Rolling Shutter Doors: Request for En&ineer's Instruction / VO
{1} MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/014552 dated 14 July 2019
We write with reference to correspondence {1), regarding the above mentioned subject and we refute
the contents of the Contractor's letter in their entirety and we comment as follows:
The Contractor has correctly stated in their letter (1) the induction loop required is clearly specified in
Specification Section 083323. The Engineer notes that Specification Section 083323 Clause 1.3 A,
clearly states "The Contractor is responsible for the design of connections and fixings for overhead
coiling doors and related elements, including interfaces and coordination with works of adjoining
trades, to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements. As scope and performance
documents, the drawings and specifications do not necessarily indicate or describe in detail all work
required for the full performance and completion of the works".
In addition to the above, and as per the performance requirements of Specification Section 013113
{Overhead Coiling Doors) Clause 1.3.A.2, the Contractor shall provide all items required for the proper
completion of the Works without adjustment to the Contract price.
The referred drawing for the rolling shutters was approved with comments back in 2017 thus, we
consider that it is included in the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 {SAA8) and moreover
the Specifications clearly states the aesthetic and performance requirements. It was up to the
Contractor, to coordinate the requirements in the Contract drawings and Specifications, highlighting
any issues requiring the Engineer's direction through an RFI in a timely manner, and to prepare the
coordinated drawings based on the clarifications provided in the RFI for an Engineer's approval.
However, the RFI was recently raised only on 27 March 2019, requesting confirmation of the
Contractor's proposal for the change of the pavement material.
We also refer to Div. 01 Specification Section 01 31 13, and remind the Contractor of their
responsibility to coordinate and submit to the Engineer any discrepancies through the RFI process and
not to withhold any information regarding known discrepancies or requirement~ _
It is considered that the RFI response has addressed the query and provided the Contractor with the
directions to proceed in line with the aesthetic and performance requirements stated in the Contract
Specifications.
In light of the above, we reject the Contractor's request for an Engineer's Instruction and a Variation
Order and urge the Contractor to immediately address the issue and proceed as per the directions
given in the RFI response in order not to further impact the Project.
We hereby reserve the Employer's rights under Clause 10.3 of the Conditions of Contr.act for any
delays associated with the above.
Yours faithfully,
