Dear Sir,

N/A

This is an instruction under Sub-Clause 13.1.1 of the General Conditions of Contract to initiate and
execute a variation. The nature and extent of the var iation is provided below.

The followi ng Employer's Requirement:

Volume 6, Employer's Requirements - Section 13, Item 13.3.3.12 Elevators, Escalators and Autowalks a) Design Philosophy (iii).

Autowalks shall be provided for the horizontal movement of passengers in the pedestrian tunnels,
where people need to walk long distances. Autowalks shall be provided for pedestrian bridges exceeding
40m length and that lead to station's remote entrances.

is amended as follows:

Autowalks shall be provided for the horizontal movement of passengers in the pedestrian tunnels,
where people need to walk long distances. Autowalks shall be provided for pedestrian bridges and
underpasses exceeding 100m length that lead to station's remote entrances. For bridges and
underpasses between 40m and 100m in length the Contractor shall consider the maximum walking
distance to the station, the catchment area of the station and the passenger numbers when deciding if
an autowalk is required, and if there is not a requirement for an autowalk the contractor shall make
passive provisions in the bridge/underpass structure to allow for the future installation of an autowalk.
The runoff at either end of an autowalk shall be 6m, and if two or more autowalks are used in a
structure the distance between them shall be minimum 12m .
Volume 6, Employer's Requirements - Section 13, Item 13.3.3.12 Elevators, Escalators and Autowalks e) Autowalks (i).

A complete set of autowaks shall be provided to serve both directions and their length shall vary
between 18 to 30m. is amended as follows:
A complete set of autowaks shall be provided to serve both directions and their length shall vary
between 18 to 50m.
Dear Sir,

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of the Engineer’s letter of reference 3) and of the subsequent
reminders of letter references 2) and 1) and takes issue with the Engineer’s Assistant assertion of a cost
saving entitlement in connection with the implementation of the RFC of reference 4).

Pursuant to the RFC of reference 4), the use of plastic guide rods and shear dowels present a reduced
likelihood of damage to the segments during erection due to the lower stiffness of the material.
Moreover, stronger embedment and bonding properties along with higher resilience to sea water
corrosion is achieved.

It is the Contractor’s opinion therefore that Clause 13.3.3.10.a) of Volume 7 of the Contract in its original
form was deficient and not fit for purpose as required by the Contract. The Contractor has merely
rectified the said clause to reflect the current best industry practices. The Contractor refers to the
extract below from page 33/35 of the Tunneling Journal of attachment 1) to this letter which is very
telling in this regard:

“As well as reducing or even eliminating steel from the main body of the segments, the authors also
expect that steel bolts will become less and less common. Push-fit plastic dowels have already replaced
steel bolts on the circumferential joint in many parts of the world, and there are projects where guiding
rods have been used in place of steel bolts on the longitudinal joint. Bolts are often included in designs
simply because they have always been used, without regard for whether they are actually required.”
The Contractor therefore maintains that there is no cost saving entitlement by implementing the RFC of
reference 4) for the reasons stated above. 1: Comparison of single metro tunnel to twin bore.
Element Conventional twin bore Single tunnel

Yours faithfully,
