
Subject: Concurrent Delay
Dear Mr. Matthews,
I write in response to reference (1 ).
The definition of "Concurrent Delay" in the Contract is clear. The Contractor's interpretation of the
definition is strained and illogical. The definition does not state that both events must be on the
critical path, nor that the effects of both events must start and/or end at the same time. Where the
effects of the events start at different times and overlap, it is highly unlikely that the effects will end
at exactly the same time. There is no logical reason why the effects must do so in order that the
period of overlap be regarded as a concurrent delay. Had the Parties intended that the effects must
be critical and start and/or end at the same time, they would have said so in the definition.
There is no reason to believe that the Parties adopted the treatment of concurrent delay set out in
the 2002 edition of the SCL Protocol. The Contractor's reliance on the Protocol for present purposes
is somewhat disingenuous. The Contractor previously stated, when it suited the Contractor to take a
contrary position, that:
"In relation to the SCL Protocol, whilst the Protocol outlines its position in relation to the impact of
concurrent delay on the assessment and award of extension of time and the recovery of any time
related costs, it also does not define a specific methodology to adopt for the identification and
quantification of any such concurrent delay.
Furthermore, neither the AACE International or the SCL Protocol are defined under the Contract and
reference to such documents by the Engineer simply clouds the issue as neither document gives
guidance which can be applied to projects of the scale and magnitude of the Midfield Terminal
Project." (reference 2)
That text is clear. The Contractor's statement in paragraph (2) of reference (1) that the Employer's
previous reference to that text was "taken out of contexf' is irrelevant.
The Employer has not sought to, and does not need to, align any definition of concurrent delay in
the Abu Dhabi Government Contract (there is none) with the definition in the Contract.
The Employer reiterates that the English case law is irrelevant to the UAE jurisdiction. In any event,
it is extremely difficult to reconcile the English decisions with each other, and with decisions from
other jurisdictions such as Scotland, because each case was concerned with specific issues which
did not require the judges to express views on concurrent delay as a whole.
ADAC relies on ADAC's and the Engineer's previous correspondence on this matter. Where ADAC
has not addressed in this letter any particular issue raised by the Contractor in reference (1 ), that
should not be taken to indicate that the Employer accepts or agrees with the particular issue in
question.
Yours sincerely,
Subject: Concurrent Delay
Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter reference 1. We have responded to any new points raised in your
letter (reference 1) in our response to the Employer's letter (reference 2).
The Contractor continues to rely upon its letter reference (3), which well states the Contractor's

position.
Yours faithfully,
