
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer's direction of reference 1) issued pursuant to General Condition ("GC") 13.2.1 of
Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith full particulars in relation to the varied
scope, quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

The Contractor's quotation of attachment 1) includes the adjustment of direct costs and quantities in
relation to the additional requirements associated with the Emergency Escape Staircase and the
Fireman's Lift pop- up which have been relocated in close proximity to the Entrance Shelter.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor notes that the quotation of attachment 1) makes provision
for works up to grade level and does not account for any of the superstructure pop-up works. A different
quote for those works will be submitted under a separate cover once the design has been further
developed.

Moreover, a breakdown of cost I quantities has been incorporated for the addit ional three (3) meter
wide fire- protected escape tunnel alongside the station box (at concourse level) which leads to the
relocated Emergency Escape Staircase.

Overall, the structure has been optimized for minimizing the impact on underground utilities. Under the
circumstances however the underground Ooredoo cable running adjacent to the structure will be
impacted

and hence the Contractor shall seek a separate Instruction in due course pursuant to General Condition
("GC") 13.7.1 of Volume 3 of the Contract.

As a consequence of enlarging the station structure the revised building perimeter encroaches the
existing site facilities and site office areas leaving the Contractor with no option but to proceed with a
costly re- arrangement of the same.

Two (2) of the Contractor's porta cabins in particular need to be relocated to a new laydown area 1km
away from the Joaan station. Furthermore, tower crane 1 will need to be replaced by a larger capacity
tower crane in a new location.

In conclusion, the quotation of attachment 1) allows for the relocation of Joaan station cabins, enabling
works at new office and laydown area, installation of new cabins, site running costs at new compound as
well as civil, architectural BoH and MEP works . The scope of works is defined by the Bill of Quantities
included in attachment 1) and by the following qualifications:

1.
Additional and I or abortive design costs have not been considered in the quotation of
attachment 1). Instead, the Contractor has enclosed as attachment 2) to this letter the anticipated
design cost of QAR 530,062 pursuant to the Fee Change Notice (FCN) No. 156 that was submitted by its

Lead Designer and reserves its rights to recover any further design expenses (plus overhead and profit)
that may be incurred towards other design consultants.

2.
The quotation of attachment 1) is inclusive of underground works only, and no provision has
been made for reinstatement of hard and soft landscaping. Moreover, no allowance has been made on
account of the reconfiguration of the remaining ventilation shafts along Al Sadd Street wh ich shall be
submitted under a separate cover.

3.
A provisional, budgetary sum in the amount of QAR 1,461 ,000 has been included for the
associated MEP works.The effects of this change to the overall MEP requirements of Joaan Station are
still under process and will be submitted as soon as practically possible under a separate cover.

4.

No provision for traffic permits nor police escort for cabin relocation has been recognized.

5.

No recognition for potential programme implications associated with the variation works.

6.
A provisional cost had been allowed for the mini bus, as the expected utilization is currently
unknown.

At present, the proposed adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of QAR 14,716,210.84 as
detailed in attachments 1) and 2). The Contractor reserves its rights to recover any time related costs in
connection to this Variation which shall be addressed under a separate cover.

Yours faithfully,
