Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0098
Delays to the Time for Completion of the Works due to Delays to Receipt of Subsidence
Works Instructions and Subsidence to Other Areas of the MTB
Dear Sir
We refer to the successive correspondences issued in relation to the subsidence that continues to occur
at the Midfield Terminal Project, including without limitation the letters identified in ref: (1), and in
particular our letters ref: (2), (3) and (4), and hereby submit this Delay Notice in consideration that the
events and/or circumstances described herein are delaying and disrupting the Works.
We have approached this Delay Notice in two parts:
1.
Delays to Receipt of Subsidence Works Instructions; and
2.
Subsidence to Other Areas of the MTB
Both parts are examined briefly as follows:
(1)
Delays to Receipt of Subsidence Works Instructions:
We continue to be perturbed and alarmed by the inordinate amount of time it takes you to address
many of the issues associated with the subsidence; in particular, the length of time taken to provide a
response to the 3rd Geotechnical Report, the delays associated with the backfilling material, as well as a
failure to issue us a complete, fully designed and properly instructed Issued for Construction set of
documentation for the remedial works and the lengthy delays issuing us with instructions generally.
Firstly, on 20 November 2018 (letter dated 5 November 2018, ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/013676), we
issue you with a 3rd ‘Geotechnical Report: MTB – Investigation of Manhole Subsidence, Issue C’, dated 4

October 2018 [with ‘Areas 3, 6, 7 and 8 added as well as other missing information’]. In the event
however, it was not until 121 calendar days later, on 21 March 2019 (letter dated 11 March 2019, ref:
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10507), that you finally provided us with comments as well as attaching a
document issued by the Employer’s Consultant (NACO) replying to the 3rd Geotechnical Report.
This is an inordinate amount of time that could and should have been avoided.
Secondly, you have habitually issued us ‘requests’ for us to undertake a successive series of testing and
subsidence related remedial works, without properly instructing us in writing in accordance with the
requirements of Clause 11.3 (‘Instructions of the Engineer’). Many of your ‘requests’, and our replies to
such are to be found within the Schedule of Correspondence included at Annex A hereto.
By way of specific example, on 19 February 2019 (letter ref: MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/013992 dated 5
February 2019), we wrote in response to your letters ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10403, LTR-10405
and LTR-10407, advising you the content were recognised as being issued under Sub-Clause 11.3.3 of
the Conditions of Contract in so far as the instructions issued therein constitute Variations. However,
while acknowledging that you have since issued letter dated 28 May 2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401LTR-10728), instructing us to proceed with the works outlined in the letters referenced therein, this
‘instruction’ was (1) limited to Clause 11.3, (2) failed to provide a number of instructions (it failed to
address the additional requirements requested in your MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10407 for example),
and as such (3) was limited to instructing tests / trials and not to undertake specific remedial works.
Moreover, we further record that the blanket ‘instruction’ issued by way of your letter dated 28 May
2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10728) attempts to instruct some of the various testing / trial
related matters that were first bought to your attention nine (9) months ago, in September 2018.
Again, this is an inordinate amount of time that could and should have been avoided.
Thirdly, we also remind you again that as advised within many of our previous letters, including without
limitation, our letter ref: (2), you have still failed to provide a complete, fully designed and properly
instructed Issued for Construction set of documentation for the remedial works in respect of not only
the subsided and subsiding MTB perimeter, but also the sub-building infrastructure.
Therefore how can we possibly be expected to address the requisite remedial works and mitigate delays
to the completion of this Project, if you continually delay issuing us the necessary Instructions?
Fourthly, we draw attention to the issue of the unsuitable backfilling material, and as advised in many of
our previous communications, including inter alia RFI/0401/17083 dated 1 May 2019 and letter ref: (3),
it is patently clear from the results of the various tests undertaken to date, that the backfill material that
has been made available to us [Stockpile 3] and which you have indicated should be used for the
subsidence remedial works, is inappropriate for its intended use. Our geotechnical expert, Robert Bird
Group has advised they ‘do not recommend the use of this material as fill …’
Accordingly, as advised in letter ref: (3), we cannot agree to use the fill material from Stockpile 3 and
consequently until such time as you advise and instruct us which fill is appropriate and can be used as
part of the subsidence remedial works, we are prevented from proceeding with any backfilling works.
Additionally, we also draw your attention to the further delays that will ensue due to your instruction
issued by way of your letter dated 29 May 2019 (ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-10737), requiring us to
arrange to return the remaining sample of stockpile material back from the Fugro test facility in Hong
Kong to the Fugro test facility in Dubai so at to undertake the collapse testing locally in the UAE.
While we are complying with your instruction, we see little merit to be gained from further testing of
the fill material. We have already advised you that the fill material from Stockpile 3 is inappropriate for
its intended use and your requirement for further testing is simply delaying matters even further.
If however, you elect to ignore the advice of our geotechnical expert, and continue to press on with
instructing us to use the same backfilling material from Stockpile 3 as part of the remedial works despite
it being unsuitable, not only do we believe you have failed to address the issue of establishing the root
cause of the problem, but we strongly contend that such remedial works will be to no avail and the

same problems will continue to occur. If this is indeed the case, and you insist on instructing us all the
same, we cannot and will not be held responsible or liable for any resultant consequences.
(2)
Subsidence to Other Areas of the MTB:
Finally, as you are aware, the subsidence that has occurred and continues to occur on this Project, is not
just limited to the sewer and storm water manholes and pipework, but has also begun to occur to the
sub-building infrastructure; and moreover, is not just limited to the [MTB] Works but has begun to affect
the MTA Contractor’s Works undertaken by L&T. In fact, the grout injection works carried out as part of
L&T’s own subsidence remedial measures have proved counter-productive in so far as it has caused
‘heave’ of the underlying substructure resulting in our pipes and manholes to settle.
In summary therefore, it is our contention that the various events and circumstances outlined above
constitutes acts of prevention and/or breach of Contract on the part of the Employer, the Employer’s
Personnel, the Consultants and the Other Contractors on the Site, and accordingly give you notice,
pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, of our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.1 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
We also give you notice in accordance with Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1, of our
right to claim an extension of time and the payment of additional Costs pursuant to Sub-Clause 15.2.4
(b), (c) and (d), and Sub-Clause 21.2.1 (j), on the basis that all of the works subject to your ‘instructions’
issued to date requiring us to uncover and test various sewer and storm water manholes and pipelines
[previously subject to your inspection and approval through the WIR process], have in fact, been found
to have been carried out by us in accordance with the Contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
