Subject: Overhead and Profit on Employer related Variations and Claims

Dear Sir,
We have been discussing Overheads and Profits with the Engineer and the Employer for some time as
this
was affecting close out of various Variations. In order to finalize this issue the Engineer has agreed to the
following:
1.) On Variations an amount equal to 11.11% will be added as Head Office Overhead and Profit
2.) On claims an amount equal to 5.5% will be added for Head Office Overhead
In case you do not accept the 5.5 % Head Office Overhead you are required to provide your audited
financial reports for the last 4 years within 48 hours of receiving this letter. Please note that if the
original
reports are not in English, a translation is required. The financial reports should summarize and explain
your requested Head Office Overhead percentage and will be provided to the Engineer for review.
The 5.61% for Profit are non-negotiable.
In case you accept the above, kindly respond with your confirmation. Please note that we will consider
no
response as your confirmation of acceptance.
Please contact us immediately if you have any further questions.
Yours Faithfully,
Subject:

Comments on Resubmission of Total Cost Incurred up to 31st October 2017

Dear Sir,
We would like to thank AGCA’s representative for attending the TCAJV offices on the 22nd January
2018. We are sure that your QS witnessed during her visit some of the difficulties we are encountering
when tracing information; from supporting documentation through to proof of payment. We compiled a
list of general comments below which detail missing information and/or further clarification on items.
AGCA witnessed the significant resources employed by TCAJV in order to review AGCA costs; however,
these exercises cannot be completed to the satisfaction of our team (most importantly our auditors)
until we are in receipt of the listed items below.
1.
LC’s - Where the LC facility has been utilized there needs to be greater substan
tiation behind this.
The LC itself – detailing beneficiary, date, project and value, bill settlement advice for settled
amounts. Wherever the LC facility used from other projects (DOHA/RIYAD METRO etc) AGCA have to
provide further proof of payment particularly for MTB Project (see comment below). Attaching
corresponding invoices to the respective LC.
The commercial invoice breakdown supporting the debit memo. This creates a clear link back to
the invoice (and LPO).
Discrepancy letter – Where there has been a discrepancy letter raised, Al Ghurair need to
evidence that an acceptance of the drawdown has been agreed, so that TCAJV can see the transaction
has been completed.

2.
Purchase orders – As discussed with Donna, (we used Hilti /Core Metal as examples), the LPO’s
often do not relate to the ADIA scheme, or have been split amongst various projects. Where this has
occurred, there will need to be further clarification on how the invoice value relating to that LPO was
determined. The split LPO’s contain various PR# numbers but TCAJV cannot possibly understand how
these have been applied/invoice splits decided upon.
3.
Payments through Cheque – needs breakdown showing how much is related to each invoice. In
some cases the breakdown is provided, but for most it is not.
4.
Finance Costs – Policies and proof of payment (not just email from Mashreq bank) to be
provided.
5.
Staff costs – Timesheets are yet to be reviewed but spot checks were undertaken (design & PM
Staff). Comparing the prolongation submission versus the most recent submission highlights
inconsistencies between monthly costs placed against certain staff members. Sometimes showing a 50%
difference (increase) between previous inclusions – Al Ghurair to advice. Al Ghurair to supply wage slips,
salary certificates, timesheets, gate passes etc.
Excel copy of staff summaries to be provided where PDF’s have been sent.
Every staff member will need to have their wage slips produced. (Al Ghurair to provide wage
slips were wages deviates from ‘normal fixed’ for bonuses, air fares etc).
Incentive/performance and Bonus payments form a significant part of the monthly costs –
therefore we would need to see evidence that these have been paid. They’re applied consistently each
month but the wage slips provided do not show this? (If paid quarterly or annually – substantiation will
need to be supplied to evidence these figures).
Evidence of training expenses to be supplied.
Car allowances – These are not shown on payslips so we can assume these are paid directly by
Al Ghurair? Please provide car rental invoices/or agreements. (Highlight invoice/vehicle pertaining to a
particular employee).
Leave allowance – Please advise why the leave allowance is a separate column – If the ‘fixed’
figure is included consistently each month then this would allow for periods of annual leave (unless Al
Ghurair can evidence that no leave was taken by an individual and they were paid in lieu of leave).
Air Tickets fares – Information on how this is paid. We cannot see evidence of this on payslips?
Group life insurance – Proof of insurance cost premium payment to be provided.Medical
insurance - Proof of insurance cost premium payment to be provided.
We look forward to receiving authentic substantiation as mentioned above in order to expedite
finalisation of the Framework Agreement.
Yours faithfully,
