Subject :

Re: Delay in CP L4.0 North and South Skylights – Outstanding Works by Other Trades

Dear Sir,
We write in response to your letter with ref. CL0/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11545/18 pertaining your
statement that certain activities have been allegedly preventing access to your works and we hereby
respond as follows:
1.
Your Statement:
“Scaffolding erected for wooden partition.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect and a misleading statement. This wooden partition belongs to the Pier 2 Area and is
not related to the aforementioned works in the Central Processor which you have been instructed to
proceed (See Attachment -1).
2.
Your Statement:
“Storage material by other trades.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is an incorrect statement. Please note that the storage has been arranged by you in the
aforementioned area and caused blockage to your own team while carrying out your works. Therefore,
as seen in the enclosed email, it was your own materials (Attachment-2). It is also worth mentioning
that as a gesture of good will, our site team assisted you to remove the materials. However, you did not
take any action for two (2) days and have ignored our notifications to proceed with the erection of your
scaffolding. Consequently, M/s China State erected their scaffolding to proceed with the Skylight
painting works.
In order to make it perfectly clear and correct such inaccurate allegation of “delay by others” in the
future, you are required to properly review and discuss with your own project team before
communicating with us.
You are hereby reminded to coordinate your works with the Contractor and other Subcontractors
pursuant to Subcontract Clauses 12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors].
3.
Your Statement:
“Flooring works ongoing.”[sic]
Our Response:
This is another misleading statement and denial of your own commitments. Once again, you are hereby
reminded to coordinate your works with other Subcontractors as per Subcontract Clauses 12.11
[Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] including the flooring
Subcontractor. Your intention to use other Subcontractor’s work as an excuse for your own delays is not
accepted and is actually caused by your lack of manpower and inadequate supervision, as elaborately
discussed in previous correspondences.
Conclusion:
In light of the above, in the event whereby you consider that delays are caused on site due to the
unsubstantiated allegations provided in your letter, it is your Contractual right to inform us accordingly.
Nevertheless, you are informed that it is a prerequisite of the Subcontract Agreement, that all alleged
delays have to be substantiated as per the provisions provided thereunder. Therefore, in order for us to
evaluate any alleged delays, you are requested to provide details demonstrating how these delays are
affecting your Programme of Works by providing supporting evidence and delay analysis. Moreover,

pursuant to Clause 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis], a detailed Time Impact Analysis for each alleged delay
event has to be provided, showing what effect each event has had on the programme and
demonstrating the Critical Activities and Concurrent Delays.
Therefore, we hereby remind you that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by
us and/or Other Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned
activities will be solely your responsibility including but not limited to Clauses 12.12 [Other Contractors
and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
