Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0120

Delays Cause and Effect Testing and Commissioning due to Delayed Response to NOC Request to Create
Opening within AMC Walls to Level L3.1 to install Fire Smoke Damper Actuators, FSD-CS-L3.1-017 and
027 and Failure to Issue an Engineer’s Instruction to rectify damage caused by Other Contractor
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Annex A records delays to the cause and effect testing and commissioning due the delayed receipt of an
NOC approving the installation of two Fire Smoke Damper Actuators, to the Airport Management Centre
(AMC) to L3.1, as well as delayed receipt of an instruction to rectify damage to power cables.
Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
Ordinarily we would be requesting your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as may
be applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption
to the Works. However, on the basis the NOC was issued, there is no action on your part.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
On 30 June 2019, we wrote under letter ref: (1) requesting you to provide the necessary approvals /
NOC to create an opening within existing [false] walls to the Airport Management Centre (AMC) to Level
L3.1 to install two Fire Smoke Damper (FSD) Actuators, FSD-CS-L3.1-017 and FSD-CS-L3.1-027.
Attached to our letter ref: (1) was a request for installation issued by way of No Objection Certificate
(NOC) ref: No: N-441, two photographs (one for each FSD Actuator) plus a marked up IFC Drawing. We
also identified that the ‘Duration’ of the noted installation Works was 10 days.
You failed to reply. This caused us to forward our NOC request to the Employer by e-mail dated 8 July
2019 [10:40am] (ref: 2) requesting “urgent approval” in order to proceed with the works.
The Employer failed to reply also.
We then e-mailed you on 21 July 2019 [at 3:44pm] (ref: 3) in which we notified you of the following:
“We have not obtained attached NOC last 3 weeks and it is affecting directly Office C&E. Please provide
advance NOC to start balance works asap.”
The approved NOC was eventually received on 24 July 2019 attached to your Transmittal Advice No.
MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-TML-06426, also dated 24 July 2019 (ref: 4) duly signed by the Employer’s Other
Contractor, ARCO, as well as yourselves (AECOM) together with a series of four (4) comments; i.e.:
1.
“To coordinate with ARCO site Engineer”;
2.
“Opening to be done to allow T&C for fire alarm interface”;
3.
“Photos attached for the FSD behind wall base build by ARCO”; and
4.
“TCA JV to be responsible for any damages.”
We record that 24 July 2019 is 24 calendar days after our NOC request was initially issued, which at this
late stage of the Project may have a consequential impact on our progress and delay us.
We also take this opportunity in reminding you of another factor affecting completion of the cause and
effect testing and commissioning and that is the rectification of the damage to the previously handed
over fire and life safety services within the AMC Room to L3.1 caused by the Employer’s Other

Contractor, for which an Engineer’s Instruction is required and remains outstanding. Our earlier letters,
including without limitation, letters dated 11 February 2018 and 12 March 2018 refers ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/012420 and MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/012610 respectively; with the latter letter
advising you that a formal Variation Order / Engineer’s Instruction shall be required for inter alia “reinstallation and re-testing and commissioning and for the certification process.” Moreover, despite a
subsequent NOC request having been approved under your Transmittal Advice MTC-CMA-TCA-0401TML-05881, allowing the damaged circuits to be rectified, the effected works have still failed to be
remedied. Our letter dated 3 June 2018 (MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/013095) noting “…NOC is approved
subject to agreed changes been recorded on a revise drawings and share officially with TCAJV”.
We therefore urge you to issue the necessary Variation Order / Engineer’s Instruction together with
revised Drawings without further undue delay; albeit any potential delays arising from this particular
issue will be assessed from the Effective Date contained in SAA8 (i.e. 4 September 2018) on the basis it
cannot possibly be constructed as forming part of the ‘Excluded Circumstances’ referenced therein.
Resultant Impact:
As noted above, the openings in the walls to the AMC are required to install two Fire Smoke Damper
(FSD) Actuators, necessary to allow testing and commissioning of the fire alarm interface. However, the
resultant delay in approving our NOC Ref: N-441 has the potential to cause delay and disruption to our
Works. Not only does this potentially delay cause and effect testing and commissioning but will
invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this has the
potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
