Subject: NCR 827: Unapproved Bearing Usage -Close Out

The Contractor refers to Non-Conformance Report No. 827 (NCR-827) issued by the Engineer in respect
of the
unapproved use of multi-rotational bearings in the arches I buttresses of the central processor. This NCR
is
based on the non-approval of the material submittals for the installed bearings and these submittals
have not
been accepted by the Engineer because the corresponding laboratory tests have not yet taken place. In
other
words, at present the only basis for NCR-827 is the pending testing of the bearings.
In relation to these laboratory tests, please be reminded that in November 2017, the Contractor queried
the
Engineer whether a cost saving proposal could be a waiver of the bearing testing requirements (5). The
Engineer responded to the Contractor requesting the submission of a commercial proposal in
accordance
with Clause 20.3 of the Conditions of Contract (4). The Contractor proceeded accordingly and submitted
a
cost saving proposal on 25 February 2018 (3), i.e. eight months ago. Please note that the Contractor
issued
this proposal upon the Engineer's request and placed the laboratory tests on hold awaiting tne
Employer's
issuance of the Variation Order.
This Variation was an integral part of the settlement proposal agreed upon by the Contractor. Moreover,
all
communications pertaining to this change were exchanged before the effective date of 04 September
2018,
so this issue clearly predates the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No.8 (SAA8) and has been
captured
under Clause 1.7.2 and Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
Notwithstanding this, the Engineer has recently rejected the Contractor's close-out request for NCR-827
stating that this non-conformance cannot be accepted for closure until the Contractor's Request for a
Variation Order No. 1923 is accepted by the Employer. To be clear, this issue has already been settled
with
the Employer and the Variation has already been agreed as part of SAA8. The Engineer shall not defer
the
issuance of revised Specifications whereby it is confirmed that testing the spherical bearings in a
laboratory is
no longer a requirement of the Contract.
The Engineer is requested to expedite the formalisation of this change and subsequently proceed with
the
closure of NCR-827.
Yours faithfully,
