Subject Delay Notification - Failures to Submit WIRs with Complete and Correct
Documentation
Cross Ref. None
Dear Sir,

We record our concerns regarding the Contractor's failure to raise Work Inspection Requests with
complete and correct documentation. The Contractor was advised in the past on the issue of missing
and/or incomplete documentation that are required to be submitted with the WIRs in accordance
with the Project's procedures. However, the Contractor has failed to act in addressing this issue.
Recently, the Contractor has submitted further WIRs that are not compliant to the Project's
procedures. For instance, the Contractor has issued WIR-YOU-00029 with incorrect inspection
description for Electronic Display (ED) and ITP for the ED and was used for the inspection of the BRS
BLP Enclosure. The applicable Shop drawings were also omitted.
We record that although the ITP used for the inspection is not correct for the installation, the
Contractor has acknowledged that the items being offered for inspection are ready for Engineer's
inspection. This casts doubt on the extent of the Contractor's QA verifications related to non relevant
construction activities such as "Wall is cleared without re-bars ... ", "height is maintained at all points
... ", "Adequate Hilti Chemical bolts to be provided" which are not applicable to a wheeled, floor
standing enclosure.
These along with other discrepancies were noted and brought to the Contractor's attention.
However, the Contractor chose to ignore the Engineer's comments and issued WIR-YOU-00030 and
WIR-YOU-00031 without rectifying the Engineer's earlier comments. In particular, we also record the
Contractor's failure in obtaining the Engineer's approval for all applicable engineering and
construction documents. The Engineer notes that the works were performed by the Contractor
without an approved Installation Method Statement. The Contractor remains responsible for all rework
requi red to bring the works into compliance when the documents are submitted and approved.
Another example is the Contract or issued WIR-S ITA-00417 and WIR-S ITA-00425 without submitting
the approved BRS IP54 En closure WIRs and the detailed drawings for the system being offered for
inspect ion. The description for the works to be inspected for WIR-SITA-00417 reads "Mock Up - Site
Installation of BRS Rugged Workstation Enclosure IP 54", however, the works offered for inspection
are the BRS workstation and peripherals.
Yours faithfully,
