Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1) and we reject the Contractor's allegations in their
entirety. The lCD was created in coordination with the Contractor's MSI team and the Airside Contractor
under the Engineer's management and supervision. Therefore, resubmitting this document requires
additional coordination under the same procedure in order to conclude the issue pertaining to mapping
the VDGS units with the PCA units associated to each parking center-line.
The Engineer has not requested the Contractor to lead the process nor to establish the coordination
sessions. On the contrary, the Engineer has always coordinated the integration requirements between
the Contractors.
The Engineer vide correspondence (2) above, has shared with the Contractor the code and as per the
usual project process. The Contractor was further informed that additional coordination is required in
order to finalize this lCD and again to resubmit it. The resubmission process requires both Contractors to
update the lCD and sign it off, thus the responsible contractor shall submit it officially for review and
approval.
We remind you that this process is already applied therefore your statement that it is "surprising" for
you to provide input on the document and the comment before the lCD gets resubmitted is unfounded.
The Contractor is hereby required to maintain its efforts focused on mitigating delays and progressing
t he timely completion of the interfaces requirements with other packages including the airside systems
as required by Contract.

Subject:Contractor’s Instruction Ref: CI/00xxx – Engineer’s Instruction No. 684A – Mock-up Building Use
Dear Sir,
Please find attached Contractor's Instruction Ref: Cl/00xxx which is self-explanatory.
Following receipt of Engineer’s Instruction No. 684A referenced (1) above, you are hereby instructed
pursuant to Clause 11.3 of the Conditions of Subcontract to remove your Mock-up materials as per
Specification Section 013310 Paragraph 1.1.B included under the Subcontract Agreement.
“The Contractor is required to comply with providing the following types of mock-ups; 1.1.B … Demolish
and remove Visual mock-ups when directed by Engineer”
Please note that, you are required to complete the removal of your Mock-up materials
by latest 15th February 2018 after which we reserve our right to carry out the works on your behalf and
back-charge all associated amounts from your payments pursuant to the Conditions of Subcontract
under the Subcontract Agreement Clause 10.3 (Contractor's Claim).
Moreover, any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other SubContractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility including but not limited to Clause 12.12.
You are hereby requested to coordinate with our Logistics Department, Mr. Mohammed Saad on
056 763 4173 immediately.
This is for your records and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
