Subject Delay in Central Processor Cause and Effect Documents Submission
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to correspondence (1), and we refute the Contractor's assertions and
respond as follows:
The Contractor's statement "we have submitted our various Submittals to you in a timely manner" is
factually incorrect. It is clear that the Contractor has failed to submit most of the documents related to
the Cause and Effect testing in advance of the Central Processor's Cause and Effect testing that was
scheduled to commence on 06 February 2019 in line with the SAA8 Rev 11.2 Baseline Programme. In
addition to this, the Contractor has spent an extensive amount of time in resubmitting the revisions of
every document and this delay has added further risks to the Contractor's Target Programme
Completion dates. Tables 1 and 2 (attached) provide a summary status of the Contractor's Cause and
Effect documents that have been submitted to date. From the attached Tables, it is evident that the
Contractor's document submissions remain inadequate and therefore, it requires another cycle of
submission and reviews. The Engineer notes with concern the continual Contractor's failure to
adequately address the Design Consu ltant's review comments entirely, despite several workshops
taking place between the Contractor, Design Consultants, AHJ, and Engineer in resolving the issues.
Through several correspondence, deficiencies of the submitted various document revisions were a
lack of coordination between the f ire alarm drawings and other systems and equipment controlled or
monitored by the fire alarm.
We reiterate that the delays to the completion of Cause and Effect testing is one of the main drivers
significantly impacting the Project's critical path and a cause of irrecoverable schedu le delays. As the
Contractor continues to resubmit the above documents, the completion of the Cau se and Effect
test ing in the MTB is likely to be further delayed. These delays have a negative impact on the BCC
inspections and subsequent approval, Taking Ove r, and Substa ntial Com pl etion. These delays are
ma inly attributed to the uncoordinated engineering management and the shortage of Contractor
resources and are, therefore, the Contractor's own delays.

The contractor has not evidenced any entitlement to any extension to the time for completion as
detailed in the engineer’s letters.
In light of the above, the contractor is directed to take inmmediate mitigation measures and all
necessary actions to expedite the resubmission of a fully compliant cause and effect documentnation in
order to recover the delatus caused byu the contractor to date.
We hereby reserve the employer’s rights under clause 10.3 of the conditions of contract for any
damages the employer may incur as a result of the contractor;s slow progress and inaction.
Yours faithfully,
