
Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0186
Damages Caused by Employer’s Other Contractor (BW Interiors) to Previously Installed Ceiling Panels at
Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423 [Due to Water Leakages] – Request for Engineer’s Instruction /
Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The information comprehensively described in Annex A hereto records events associated with delays
attributable to damages caused by the Employer’s Other Contractor (BW Interiors) to our previously
installed ceiling panels located at Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423; this will require rectification and
accordingly will require an Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order for us to do so.

Potential Impact
Disruptions and delays caused by others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We herewith enclose a series of photographs and videos (appended hereto at Annexe B and C) that
collectively serve to evidence damage having been caused to our previously installed ceiling panels
(Figure 1 refers) adjacent to the X-Ray Machines at Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423 (Figure 2 refers).
Unfortunately despite our ceiling panels at Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423 having been installed,
inspected and handed over by us through the WIR process, they have subsequently been damaged due
to water leakages attributable to the activities of the Employer’s Other Contractor (BW Interiors) while
they were executing water leak tests for waterproofing works at the Tenant area, located at Food &
Beverages area Room 334 Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B, which is above Room 423 Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B.
Figure 1 – Damaged Ceiling Panels Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423
Figure 2 - Location of damaged ceiling panels at Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B Room 423
As stated above the water leakages were caused during the waterproofing works (Tenant Works) being
undertaken by the Employer’s Other Contractor (BW Interiors) to the Food & Beverage area Room 334
Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B as shown in the location marked-up in Figure 3 below. Specifically, BW Interiors
applied an ‘Acrylic modified cementitious waterproofing coating’ to the floor and around our previously
installed pipes at Room 334 Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B (Figure 3 and Figure 4 refers). Following completion
of the application and during the water-test of the ‘cementitious waterproofing’ by BW Interiors, the
water that was discharged on the floor for the water-test, penetrated the ‘cementitious waterproofing
coating’ material and consequently the concrete slab below. The penetration of the water through the
floor slab was a result of an incorrect application of the ‘Acrylic modified cementitious waterproofing
coating’ to the floor, between and around the pipes by BW Interiors.
Figure 3 - Room 334 Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B Food & Beverage area
Figure 4 – Room 334 Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B Food & Beverage area
(Tenant Works by BW Interiors)
The penetrated water travelled through the concrete floor slab from Room 334 Level 2.0 Sector 5.19B,
through the water pipes (Figure 5 refers) and reached Room 423 Level 1.0 below, causing damages to
our previously installed ceilings in the manner shown in Figure 1 above.
Figure 5 – Soffit of Slab (this is the concrete slab below ‘Room 334 Level 2.0
Sector 5.19B’ which is above ‘Room 423 Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B’)
In support of the foregoing events, we provide the following attachments:
1.
Annex A: This narrative providing a ‘Description of the Event’;

2.
Annex B: ‘Photos / Images Reference’; and
3.
Annex C: ‘CD with Videos of the water leakage’.
We wish to put on record that the foregoing events are not of our doing or responsibility, and any
rectification / remedial works necessarily required to procure and re-install the damaged ceiling panels
adjacent to the escalators at Room 423 Level 1.0 Sector 5.19B, at this stage will invariably delay us.
We therefore inform you in order for us to undertake the rectification works to the damaged services
noted above, will require the issuance of a Variation Order (VO) / Engineer’s Instruction (EI). SAA8 laid
down strict guidelines to follow in the event that additional works are required and we therefore
request you to issue the necessary VO / EI for the requisite rectification works to be undertaken.
Furthermore, we request you to whatever action is necessary to prevent any further occurrence of
damages to our previously handed-over MEP services installation by the Employer’s Other Contractor.
Yours faithfully,
