Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0224
Engineer’s Response to RFI/0401/17648 – Additional Works Introduced to Close the Gap
Between the MPC panel and façade at Level 2.0 Departure Hall Sector 5.22 & 5.12 - Request for
Engineer’s Instruction (EI) / Variation Order (VO)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
Your response to RFI/0401/17648 detailed in Annex A hereto, represents a change to the design and
scope of our Works and requires a valid EI and VO in order for us to integrate the same into the Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
Sometime in or about end November 2019 / early December 2019, you e-mailed us a schedule entitled
‘Interface Tracker’, detailing various site actions needed to be undertaken to previously completed
works to the CP area Level L2.0 Office and Hotel following a recent site inspections by you / ADAC.
One item in particular is item 31, which relates to the existence of a gap between the MPC panel and
facade located at CP Level 2.0 Departure Hall Sector 5.22 and Sector 5.12 as indicated by the following

extract of the Interface Tracker’ in Figure 1, while some indicative site photos are provided at Figure 2
below:
Figure 1
Figure 2
Notably, the ‘Interface Tracker’ states inter alia that:
•
“The enclosure between MPC-11c and GYB-01 [is] as per approved shop drawing …”
•
“… as agreed with ADAC additional gypsum and EPDM to be provided in order to close gap. …
Proposed detail has been sent to KPF … RFI to be raised for officially [sic] confirmation”.
These comments tell us the following:
1.
That the works have been completed in accordance with approved Shop Drawings (in which
respect Shop Drawings are directly derived from/based upon ADAC approved IFC Drawings);
2.
That both you and ADAC recognise that “additional” works are needed to close the gaps;
3.
That a proposed detail [using “additional gypsum and EPDM”] to close the gap already exists
and this has been sent to the Employer’s Design Consultant [KPF] presumably for approval; and
4.
That we were ordered by you to raise a Request for Information to obtain official confirmation
of the additional gypsum and EPDM detail required by you/ADAC to close the gaps.
Accordingly we complied with your request and on 10 December 2019 raised RFI/0401/17648 together
with the following attachments, seeking approval of a suggested detail in order to overcome what is in
effect a deficiency in the IFC Design and to close the gap between the façade and MRC panels:
•
A copy of the ‘Interface Tracker’ comments ‘Item 31’ as shown in Figure 1 above.
•
Copies / extracts of IFC Drawing No: MTC-A-02-TB-L2.0-5.12-00.550_21 and IFC Drawing No:
MTC-A-02-TB-L2.0-5.22-00.560_24, highlighting the exact locations of the gaps between MP-11C and
Façade at CP Level 2.0 Departure Hall Sector 5.22 & 5.12; and
•
Three (3) sketches enumerated as ‘Sketch A’, ‘Sketch 01’, ‘Sketch 02’, which consist of a photo of
the gap and sketches (reproduced in Figure 3 below), including suggestions to close the gap with EPDM
and gypsum boards in the exact same manner as per your ‘Interface Tracker’ comments;
Figure 3
We requested your response to RFI/0401/17648 by 19 December 2019. However, you failed to reply
until 7 calendar days later on 26 December 2019. Notwithstanding the prolonged period in responding,
in its reply, the Employer’s Design Consultant (KPF) nevertheless advised us of the following:
“No objection to contractor’s proposal. Contractor to submit relevant shop drawings showing the
interfaces with the floor and ceiling. No cost / time.”
Evidently, KPF’s response has confirmed the necessary changes required to the Works to accommodate
the installation of EPDM and gypsum boards in order to close the gaps between MP-11C and Façade at
CP Level 2.0 Departure Hall Sector 5.22 & 5.12. However, in doing so, we wish to stress the following:
1.
As noted above and acknowledged both you and ADAC, the works to CP Level 2.0 Departure Hall
have been completed in accordance with the IFC Drawings and approved Shop Drawings .
2.
You and ADAC have already conceded that additional works are required as noted above.
3.
We complied with your directive to raise an RFI to obtain official confirmation of the additional
gypsum and EPDM detail required to close the gaps. Consequently the details attached to our RFI were
suggestions to overcome deficiencies that were inherent in the existing IFC Design.

However, irrespective of who provided the detail in confirmation of the provision of additional gypsum
and EPDM in order to close the gap, the detail is representative of additional works that is not currently
shown in the IFC Drawing; and will require a VO / EI formally confirming that you require the same.
However, what is particularly disconcerting is that, on the one hand KPF, are surreptitiously introducing
changes to the Works through the ‘Interface Tracker’ and by way of its response to RFI/0401/17648, yet
on the other hand, they are expecting us to absorb the associated additional time and cost, stating that
these changes shall have “no cost/time”.
At the risk of being repetitive, these works have been completed in accordance with the design shown
on the IFC Drawings (Figure 6 refers). Therefore, the gaps are unequivocally a deficiency in the design for
which the Employer’s Design Consultant is liable for, not us. We are not designers for the project’ we
have simply offered a potential solution to overcome the noted deficiency as requested to do so.
Figure 6 - IFC Drawing No: MTC-A-02-TB-L2.0-5.12-00.550_21
Therefore, these works are additional and are a change to our scope of Works. As a result, if such works
are to be undertaken, then we will incur additional time associated with the preparation and approval of
Shop Drawings, plus additional time in procuring the EPDM and gypsum boards and installing them on
site. There is also the direct cost associated with the procurement and installation of the additional
EPDM/ gypsum boards utilising additional labour, plant and access scaffolding etc.; which will involve
return visits to previously completed work/areas. Plus there are the costs of delay resulting therefrom.
Therefore for KPF to expect us to absorb the costs and time for all of that is totally unacceptable.
Further, as the Employer’s Design Consultant is the designers for this Project, we accept no liability or
responsibility for any inconsistencies in the Design; this remains with the Employer’s Design Consultant.
We further remind you that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required
and this change / additional variations works will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a
Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the Works.
Accordingly the express provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of SAA8 are patently clear: We are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Therefore, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with SAA8 Clause 2.29,
we are unable to proceed with implementing this change into the Works and we will continue to
proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Yours faithfully,
