
Subject:
Request for an Extension of Time - Covid-19 Impacts on the Project and other delays
incurred to the Subcontractor’s Works
Dear Sir,
The Subcontractor is in receipt of the Contractor’s letter ref: (4) above, wherein the Contractor has
informed us (the Subcontractor) about alleged delays to the works and requested the Subcontractor to
“intensify the works carried out…” and mitigate any delays that might have occurred.
In addition, you (the Contractor) inter alia stated thereto, that letter ref: (4) “… should be treated as the
final call of the Subcontractor to the proper performance of the Subject of the Agreement, and in the
event that the Subcontractor fails to take the necessary actions to make up for the delays in the
performance of the Subject of the Agreement, the Contractor in accordance with § 3 sec. 10 will entrust
the performance of the above-mentioned scope of works to another entity, in whole or in part, at the
cost and risk of the Subcontractor…”.
In response to the Contractor’s comments included thereto and partially shown above, the
Subcontractor wishes to respond as follows:
We (the Subcontractor) put on record that numerous letters have been sent to the Contractor by the
Subcontractor including but not limited to letters ref: (1) to (6) above, associated with the continuing
adverse impacts that the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has had and continues to have on the
Project and other delays incurred beyond the Subcontractor’s control. By way of reminder, our
numerous letters described the implications of several delaying and disruptive events on the Project and
the Subcontractor’s Scope of Works.
It is an indisputable fact that COVID-19 was declared a pandemic on 11 March 2020 by the World Health
Organization (‘WHO’), and has since then been affecting numerous countries around the world,
including Poland.
Evidently, the pandemic has been heavily impacting the Project’s workforce for the recent past months.
This has become a serious concern in which we, the Contractor and Subcontractor, have continuously
been engaging in various conversations and efforts to minimize the risk and preventing COVID-19 from
becoming an outbreak in the Project. All these have taken place, during the time which the
Subcontractor has been trying to increase the manpower on-site, particularly skilled workers.
With the pandemic continuing to spread around the World at an alarming rate, and numerous countries,
including Poland, imposing severe restrictions on flights, travel and social interaction amongst others,
the Subcontractor has been in continuous communication with the Contractor regarding the progress of

the works in order to appraise the Contractor as to how the Subcontractor’s Scope of Works is being
materially affected by the impact of COVID-19.
Consequently, the Subcontractor notes that the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected and
continues to affect the process of recruiting manpower as stated above, as well as, has affected the
process of assigning and allocating manpower to the Project. This is having a detrimental impact on our
progress, resulting in a significant drop in manpower levels, in particular skilled workers such as
carpenters, masons, steel fixers etc, which are essential for successful completion the works.
In addition, there have been numerous delays from the Polish authorities particularly the emigration
offices, which have been affecting and delaying for more than six (6) months, the issuance of work
permits for personnel arriving from abroad. For this reason, the Subcontractor has been taking actions
and has been increasing the workforce on-site with local manpower. However, it has been found that
productivity on-site has not increased despite we have increased the manpower and have employed
more than fifty (50), local workers. The main reason of the low productivity is the lack of skilled workers.
Therefore, the Subcontractor kindly informs the Contractor that the manpower (workers and
supervision staff) will continue to increase to ensure that it reaches the required levels while conforming
with the guidelines imposed by the Republic of Poland, the European Union, as well as, the country of
origin of each of the Subcontractor’s personnel to be engaged to the Project.
We assure you, that we are determined and currently working on resolving and overcoming these
difficulties, and immediate measures are taken to increase the manpower on-site at the required level
to mitigate any delays.
At this juncture, it is also worth noting that the health and welfare of the Project’s personnel, always
remain our top priority to ensure that appropriate actions and measures are in place taking into
consideration these unprecedented circumstances.
Moreover, and as stated above, the Subcontractor has responded to all correspondences (including
other issues not specifically related to COVID-19) raised by the Contractor and addressed all the
Contractor’s concerns regarding the progress of the works. However, the Subcontractor regrets to note
that the Contractor has not taken into consideration the numerous letters sent by the Subcontractor,
including but not limited to letters ref: (1) to (6) above, wherein we have provided sufficient explanation
in regard to overcoming the delays incurred which have affected our works, as listed below:
(i)
delays due to Covid-19;
(ii)
other delays beyond the Subcontractor’s control;
(iii)
materials’ shortages;
(iv)
delays in deliveries of materials;
(v)
delays due to incomplete deliveries of materials;
(vi)
deliveries of materials that do not meet the standards or the quality required.
In addition, we reiterate that numerous delays have incurred as a result of the lack of materials provided
by the Contractor such as steel and formwork materials, as well as, delays to the commencement of the
Subcontractor’s works due to late completion of the excavation works by the Contractor, all of which are
considered acts of prevention on the Contractor’s part. These delays had considerable delaying and
disruptive effects on our Work and are contrary to the Contractor’s obligations defined under the
Subcontract Agreement.

All of the abovementioned delays, which are also elaborated in the aforementioned Subcontractor’s
correspondences, such as letters ref: (1) to (6) above, are not a result of the Subcontractor and for that
reason, the Subcontractor cannot be held culpable.
Evidently, despite the numerous correspondences, the Contractor has not taken into consideration any
of the Subcontractor’s correspondences nor has evaluated any entitlement for Extension of Time that
the Subcontractor clearly has. This is not acceptable.
It is noted that the Subcontractor is doing its utmost to try to cope with the pandemic in terms of the
impact on this Project and not only the Contractor has not addressed the Subcontractor’s concerns but
has also unilaterally removed some of the Subcontractor’s Scope of Works under the Subcontract
Agreement and has proceeded with allocating this scope to another party. This is not fair nor reasonable
and is in contradiction to the terms of the Subcontract Agreement, and cannot be accepted.
We find ourselves in an unprecedented situation, the circumstances of which are entirely outside our
control and completely fluid and therefore the Subcontractor will not accept to bear any costs due to
the Contractor’s decision to assign manpower to execute part of our Scope of Works nor can we accept
any reduction to our Scope of Works while bearing additional costs.
In line with the recent correspondences, we urge you to refrain from sending further delay notifications
on this matter, but instead work with us to address the issues on-site, but also to look to assist us rather
than hinder us, towards the successful completion of the Project. Moreover, this is to express our
willingness to discuss and plan the Works accordingly taking into consideration the current
circumstances, to mitigate any delays.
Consequently, based on the abovementioned delays which are beyond our control and the various acts
of prevention on your part, the Subcontractor hereby officially notifies the Contractor pursuant to the
Conditions of the Subcontract Agreement Clause 3 [Deadline for performance of the contract] Paragraph
8, of our entitlement to an extension of the Time for Completion in accordance with Clause 4
[Subcontractor’s Duties] Paragraph 12, as a consequence of Force Majeure, as well as other delays
consequent upon the Contractor, as discussed above.
Accordingly, interim and/or final details of the associated delays with time impacts and adjustment to
the time of completion will be provided in due course.
Moreover, please be informed that the Subcontractor is currently working on the preparation of a
recovery plan, which will be submitted to the Contractor in due time.
However, we point out once more that we will not be held responsible for such factors for which we are
not culpable and will not accept to bear the cost or any delays beyond our control, as those outlined
above.
Meanwhile, the Subcontractor will continue to provide periodic updates and notify the Contractor
accordingly, but in the meantime, reaffirms that we remain fully committed to the Project and to
completing our obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on, time, safety and
quality.

Yours faithfully,
