Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0271
Building Wires Installations in External Areas – Request for Engineer’s Instruction
Dear Sir

Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters recorded in Annex A describe an attempt made by you at instigating changes to our existing
scope associated with the ADDC Approval of Building Wires Installations in External Area which will
require a valid Engineer’s Instruction and Variation Order in order for you to us to instigate into the
Works.
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required:
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Background
RFI/0401/15803:
On 7 March 2018, we raised RFI/0401/15803 associated with the ‘Secondary Containment and Wiring in
Landside L0.0 and L2.00’ requesting further clarification in relation to the following (refer to Figure 1):
Figure 1
You responded on 20 March 2018 informing us of the following (refer to Figure 2):
Figure 2:
RFI/0401/15908:
Following which, we then raised RFI/0401/15908 on 28 March 2018 associated with the ‘Landside Final
Wiring’ requesting further confirmation from you in relation to the following (refer to Figure 3):
Figure 3
This was responded to on 22 April 2018 in which were advised of the following (refer to Figure 4):
Figure 4:
This E-Notice No. 0271
NCR-01650:
However, on 21 May 2020, we received Non-Conformance Report No: MTC-CMA-0401-NCR-01650
(NCR-01650) associated with alleged nonconformances relating to ‘Building Wires Installation in External
Area’.
The ‘Description’ detailed within NCR-01650 states inter alia (refer to Figure 5):
Figure 5
Attached thereto are ADDC Rejection Reports of Case ID 3142992335 and 8839739224 and Site photos.
NCR-01650 concludes with the following statement under ‘Specs Requirements’ (refer to Figure 6):

Figure 6
We make the following comments and observations in relation to the foregoing:
•
The Specification does not call for armored cables for all external lighting.
•
We raised RFI to confirm replacing multi-core flexible cables with the approved single-core
wires. The Employer’s Design Consultant confirmed this via its response to RFI/0401/15908.
•
Shop Drawings were submitted showing single core cables for all external lights (except street
light poles) and have been approved.
•
Installations commenced accordingly based on approved Shop Drawings.
•
ADDC have since inspected and rejected the installations requesting armored cables instead of
single-core wires.
•
Subject was discussed technically with you and it was agreed to undertake a design risk study.
•
We prepared a design risk assessment with mitigation measures and provided the same to you
•
You have since issued NCR-01650 which not only rejected the design risk study and but you
failed to take cognisance of the above chronology of events and what is cited in the RFI responses.
•
On this basis we disagree entirely with the statements made in NCR-01650 and reject it outright.
We take this further opportunity in reminding you of the following:
On 19 February 2015 (letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-03206) you wrote to us in connection with
‘Close-Out of ADDC Activities’ informing us that “… the Employer has confirmed that [our] electrical
services shop drawing will not be submitted to ADDC. Attached to this letter is the ADDC NOC to allow
you to proceed with the ADDC Stage 3 Application.” This NOC and accompanying letter was prompted
by the Employer's email request dated 19 November 2014, seeking relaxation of certain ADDC approval
procedures. The attached ADDC NOC advised the Employer that based on the Employer’s e-mail
requesting “relaxation [of] and [for ADDC] to accept the deviations for some of the major comments
raised by ADDC ...” [therefore bypassing Stage 2 ‘Shop Drawing review’], ADDC said it had “no objection”
for the Employer to proceed to Stage 3 ('Application for Connection'); as long as the Employer is satisfied
with the consultant’s design. Moreover, within its NOC dated 22 December 2014, ADDC further stated
that: “[The Employer] ADAC shall ensure that all the installations will comply with the Electricity Wiring
Regulations 2009 and [accordingly ADAC] shall be responsible for any issues and implications arising out
of the above deviations at any time.”
A further copy of ADDC's NOC was issued to us under cover of your letter dated 3 March 2015 (ref:
letter ref: MTC-CMA-TCA-0401-LTR-03264) confirming the agreement to bypass Stage 2 and proceed
directly to Stage 3. This meant that we were no longer required to submit shop drawings to ADDC for
approval but were expressly directed by you to proceed with the electrical installations based on the
Engineer-approved shop drawings; our shop drawings being developed from and based upon the IFC
Design Drawings. This was subsequently re-confirmed within our letter dated 22 June 2015 (ref:
MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/004999) in which we advised you that in consideration of the NOC, and that as part
of the relaxation of the ADDC approval process, the Employer assumed responsibility for any issues
arising therefrom, and we would not be held liable for any comments from ADDC inspectors for any
non-compliance with ADWR 2009, or ADWR 2014, or for any preferential requirements for the electrical
installations during Stage 3 or 4 of the ADDC inspection / approval process.
However, it is clear the Employer failed to take on and administer that responsibility and through you,
are attempting to hold us liable for various issues identified in the IFC Electrical Design by ADDC
inspectors that have been ‘rejected’ during subsequent ADDC inspections. Once such issue is that
identified above.
In summary therefore, for the reasons set out above, we maintain that the various matters listed in
NCR-01650 associated with the ‘Building Wires Installation in External Area’ are not non-conformances
per se as alleged but are additional to our existing scope. The matters subject to NCR-01650 represents

an attempt at changing the existing IFC requirements and vary our scope without adopting the
contractual mechanism for instigating any change in design, this will require the provision of revised IFC
Drawings and an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction/Variation Order for us to integrate such change
into the Works.
We therefore take this further opportunity in reminding you of the provisions of Clause 2.29 to Clause
2.31 of Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we
are not to proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued
first. In which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change to the
Project; this is only after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us
beforehand.
Therefore given that SAA8 laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and it is
patently clearly this has been ignored, then this change will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI)
and a Variation Order (VO) if you require us to proceed with integrating the revised scope into the
Works. Meanwhile, until such time as you take the action required of you in accordance with the
express requirements of SAA8, we are unable to proceed with implementing the changes noted above
and will continue to proceed in accordance with the existing IFC design to the extent we are able to.
Meanwhile, please note: given the critical stage the Project is currently at, then any delay to the
Electrical Installations to the external areas will impact associated inspections, and invariably delay and
disrupt the completion of our testing and commissioning. This will invariably knock on and impact our
ability to achieve Milestone MS09B and prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (Milestone
MS09C).
Finally, while acknowledging that the two RFIs and the various letters cited above pre-date SAA8, this
matter cannot possibly be construed as forming part of the ‘Included Circumstances’ (as per Clause 1.7.4
of SAA8) as SAA8 cannot reasonably be interpreted as requiring the Contractor to absorb delays of
unknown (possibly unlimited) durations post 4 September 2018, particularly where the resolution of the
matter causing the delay lies with the Employer. We contend that in these circumstances, the
responsibility, under the Contract (as amended by SAA8), for such delays lies with the Employer.
Yours faithfully,
