
Dear Sir,
The Engineers Assistant writes to record that further slippage in the ramp removal programme at Qatar
National Museum (QNM) has been observed.

From calculations forwarded to the Engineers Assistant by email on 01 August 2015 there is around
6000 m3 of material to be removed. Therefore the latest revised completion date of 08 August 2015, (as
previously revised from 23 July 2015), will not be achieved.

From discussions held at QNM on 01 August 2015 the Engineers Assistant await details of how the ramp
will be removed to avoid any effect on key critical activities. Affected activities are.

•
Base slabs B1 and B2 which cannot be commenced until the ramp is fully removed. Late finish of
the ramp is delaying the concrete works in these areas.
•
Steel fixing and concrete works on slabs 01 and D2 continue to be held up due to delays in
providing a compliant design for these slabs.
•

Works on the area at slab C2 will cease after blinding.

•
The area at slab 02 was excavated and blinded by 09 June 2015, and some steel has been fixed,
but a certified design remains outstanding from your design sub-contractor.
•

The area at slab D1 is blinded and empty, whilst the area at slab C2 is already at formation level.

•
It is also noted that the headwall on Slab A1 at the eastern end of the station has so far taken 34
days to prepare with a proposed pour date of 06 August 2015. This is a delay of 36 days while the planed
completion date for east head wall was 14 July 2015 (as per CMP 5).
•
In the A 1 and A2 area, the outer wall design is DVE approved. The Engineer's Assistant seeks
assurance from Contractor that works on these walls are due to commence in a timely manner, and
requests details of the current procurement for steel and shutter, both of which are not currently on

site, but which will be required in short order. The completion of the headwall should not affect
immediate commencement of the outer walls construction.
•
The Engineers Assistant is concerned that delays to the slab and wall pours will in turn delay the
concourse construction until after TBM arrival. This risks a further delay of up to 6 weeks as the
concourse slabs may then be held up until after transit of the TBM's, whereas partial or total
completion of concourse slabs prior to TBM arrival would release wall and slab construction above the
completed concourse slab.
The Engineers Assistant seeks assurance that works will be expedited and requires Contractor to submit
an action plan before COB on 11 August 2015 that clearly demonstrate how the delays referenced above
ill be mitigated.

Yours faithfully,
