Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0276
Delays to our Works due to the Activities of the Employer’s Other Contractors
- Structured Cabling Network Works to Satellite Communication Rooms (SCR)
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
As noted in Annex A hereto, the activities of the Employer’s Other Contractors inside various Satellite
Communication Rooms (SCR) and related areas associated with Structured Cabling Network works, is
delaying and disrupting our Works and preventing us from completing snagging and handing over.
Potential Impact
Acts of prevention on the part of others such as that outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
increasingly likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required

We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF THE EVENT
Background
We write to express our concerns relating to the activities of the Employer’s Others Contractors (i.e.
FOSS, GMB, Comba – Etisalat, DU, MDS Computers and Abu Hussain), inside a number of Satellite
Communication Rooms (SCR) and related areas pertaining to their cable pulling and related activities,
associated with the Structured Cabling Network (SCN) works, for and on behalf of the Employer.
Not only are the Employer’s Other Contractor’s schedules already overdue and resultantly they have
requested multiple extensions to their NOCs, but during our snagging, we have received numerous
comments relating to the Employer’s Other Contractor’s; which are not of our doing or responsibility.
The emails attached to Annex B, demonstrate that such events have been on-going for some time. For
example, numerous NOCs have been issued for the same area multiple times, but the Employer’s Other
Contractors have been failing to complete their works on time, such as the cable pulling works executed
by M/s FOSS. Moreover, as is evident from the below e-mail (see Figure 1 below), you also have
contributed in delaying us in so far as your representatives were unavailable to attend a site walk to
inspect Ms’ FOSS’s works. Overall, these acts of prevention are having a considerable delaying and
disruptive effect on our Work, in so far as we are prevented from completing our snagging and punch
list activities promptly, and delaying the completion and handing over of the respective areas.
Figure 1
The e-mails attached at Annex B hereto evidence the specific SCRs affected by M/s FOSS’s failure to
complete their works despite multiple NOCs’ issued by us permitting access to the respective areas.
Moreover, as noted above, in addition to the delays incurred due to the actions and/or inactions of the
Employer’s Other Contractors, we have also unreasonably received comments from you during the
snagging inspections, which in fact relate to the actions of the Employer’s Other Contractors. In light of
the critical stage the Project is at, any comments received during inspections of our works that are not
our responsibility cannot be accepted and will invariably delay the Time for Completion.
Please note that in the event that additional works are required due to the actions of the Employer’s
Other Contractors, such as necessary repairs to our works, will put us to additional expense [and time]
and we will therefore require you to issue us a Variation Order / Engineer’s Instruction as per the
requirements of SAA8, in order for us to undertake the remedial work and be paid accordingly.
We would also kindly urge you to take whatever necessary action is required on your part to prevent
any further occurrence of damages to our previously completed Works and also ensure that there are
no further delays caused by the non-completion of works by the Employer’s Other Contractors.
The various acts of prevention on your part and/or the part of the Other Contractors have delayed and
disrupted our Works. This event will impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B and Milestone
MS09C. Accordingly, we maintain all our rights under the express provisions of Conditions of Contract
Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension
to the Time for Completion and the associated costs arising from this event.

In summary, we request your urgent action to resolve the matters noted above in order to mitigate
delay and/or disruption to the Works. This may take the form of urging the Employer’s Other
Contractors to urgently complete their works to enable us to complete our snagging and hand-over.
Yours faithfully,
