Subject:Engineer’s Notification of a Notice to Correct - Shortage of Manpower
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your letter (1) regarding the concerns you have in respect of the recent
reductions in the manpower numbers at site.

Whereas your focus is on negative manpower variances, we are disappointed that you have made no
reference to the positive variances to the indirect supervision manpower for Anel of 432, for PCEJV of 28
and for Al Ghurair showing an increase of 80. These additions have improved the productivity and focus
of the manpower at site due to closer supervision and work front direction.
Furthermore, to compensate the negative variances of Anel and PCEJV, we have deployed 796 skilled
labourers to assist them, mitigating potential delays and maintaining the planned progress.
We reiterate our comments made in our previous letter (2) that the planned resource levels submitted
by us are a best assessment at the time of programming and there will be natural fluctuations due to
sickness, rest days and the daily changing demands of the programme.
Regretfully, there remains a domestic issue between PCEJV and NAFFCO over the valuation of their
account, which has resulted in a reduction of manpower at site on the date of your count, however our
own increased labour compensates for this.
We disagree with your statement: ‘We remind the Contractor that they are in delay and have not
evidenced any entitlement to any extension to the Time for Completion.’
Your statement is entirely misguided, and we maintain that we are currently entitled to an extension to
the Time for Completion of Milestone MS09C of ‘at least’ 320 calendar days, in respect of TIA No. 3 –
Post SAA8, in respect of the events cited therein, revising the Completion of MS09C to 15 September
2020.
To date, we have submitted 3 fully supported claims for entitlement to an extension to the Time for
Completion:
1.
TIA No. 1 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 4 September
2018 and 1 May 2019’ submitted under cover of letter ref: (3); and
2.
TIA No. 2 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 2 May 2019 and
1 August 2019’ submitted under cover of letter ref: (4).
3.
TIA No. 3 – Post SAA8, namely ‘Consolidated Delay Analysis for Events between 2 August 2019
and 1 October 2019’ submitted under cover of letter ref: (5).
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing our
obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality.
Yours faithfully,
