Subject: TENANCY CANCELLATION REQUEST LETTER (Second Request)
Dears,
With reference to our letter dated 6 July 2020 ref: (1) above, wherein we kindly requested you for early
termination of our Lease Agreement for our offices no. 2901 located at Concord Tower, Sufouh – 2 area
in Dubai and further to your email response dated 14 July 2020 [3:36 PM] ref: (2) above, wherein you
declined our request, we wish to advise you of the following.
We put on record that via your email ref: (2), you have declined our request for early termination by
stating that “Current agreement will keep continue on the same terms and you have to complete the
lease period of current agreement”. In addition, via your mentioned email, you have also made a

counter-proposal by offering “10% Discount and 2 Month Grace Period on renewal of the lease
agreement”.
At this juncture, it is appreciated that you have offered a “10% Discount and 2 Month Grace Period on
renewal of the lease agreement”, however, as stated in our aforementioned letter, our company has
sustained and continues to sustain a major financial impact associated with the Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Pandemic and thus we have no alternative than to immediately seek to reduce our operational costs to
the minimum.
In regards to your offer for a 10% Discount and 2 Month Grace Period, albeit in any other circumstances,
this would be considered a very generous offer, unfortunately at present, this would not be a sufficient
nor an adequate measure, for our business during these difficult times.
For this reason, we would like to clarify that our request has been made under ‘Force Majeure’, and thus
we are compelled to maintain our position as stated in our letter dated 6 July 2020 and also stated
herein, that we have no other option than, to seek other arrangements elsewhere, in regards to the
premises of our office.
In view of the foregoing, we reiterate our request to mutually agree with you, on early termination for
the lease of our office, pursuant to Clause 7 [Termination] of the Lease Agreement, with the final date of
occupancy being 31 August 2020.
Consequently, we once again kindly request that you return the “the unrented period” as stated in
Clause 7.1 of the Lease Agreement, and specifically the remaining cheques dated 25th September 2020
(AED 41,814.00) and the ‘Refundable Deposit’ amount equal to AED 16,726.00.
We understand that it is unfortunate to terminate the lease of our offices earlier, but as you would also
understand, our decision has been made while taking into consideration the financial survival of our
business as a result of the impacts of COVID-19. Hence, a positive response and acceptance of our
request for early termination would be greatly appreciated.
In addition, please be informed that there have been numerous court decisions in Dubai recently in
regards to early contract termination, which have been settled in favour of the Tenants. Specifically, the
Dubai’s Rental Dispute Centre, has recently announced, that tenants can end a rent contract early under
‘Force Majeure’ if hit by financial hardship due to COVID-19, without a financial penalty. In support of
this, we have attached to this letter (Annex A refers) the relevant media release associated with these
court decisions, for your information and reference.
As stated by Judge Abdulqader Musa, director of the Rental Disputes Centre “During such
unprecedented times, it is the responsibility of all respective parties to adhere to co-operate and
support one another, taking account their circumstances and being prepared to waive some of their
rights until this exceptional global crisis subsides”.
We trust the above clarifies the matter and you would take prompt necessary actions as a matter of
urgency.
Please confirm receipt of this letter, by returning a signed copy.
Yours faithfully,
