Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0122
Delays to Completion of Precast Planter and Seating Sealant Application
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays to the Works due to the protracted approval of the
hydrophobic coating (sealant) to the precast concrete planters and seating throughout the MTB.
Potential Impact
Delays and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.

ANNEX A
Description of the Event
In or about May 2018, we were informed that you / the Employer was considering the application of a
hydrophobic coating (sealant) to all precast concrete elements – primarily precast concrete planters and
seating – throughout the Terminal Building; our letter ref: (1) refers. This letter not only served to
advise that such work constituted a Variation to our scope of Works but we duly requested clarification
as to the type of sealant required in order for us to proceed with the additional works.
Unfortunately, your belated response issued on 2 October 2018 (ref: 2), simply advised us that “this
issue has been captured by Amendment No. 8” and despite ordering us to proceed with the works,
neglected to inform us of the type of sealant actually required to be applied to the precast elements.
Our letter of reminder (ref: 3) is synonymous with this very matter, in which we advised you that until
such time as you advise us the particular elements to be coated, the precise type of sealant / coating to
be applied etc., then we would be prevented from proceeding with the additional sealant works.
Once again however, your further letter (ref: 4) failed to provide the necessary information but with
reference to the attached ‘Technical Clarification’, issued in response to our Request for Engineer’s
Instruction [No. 0705], advised us that “this is deemed [to be] included in Amendment No. 8”.
There then followed a succession of verbal discussions and e-mail exchanges associated with various
samples. This includes inter alia your requirement to proceed [formally] with one particular sample
conveyed by way of your e-mail dated 16 May 2019 (ref: 5); which was done by way of our Material
Submittal No. MS/0401/A/1756 Rev. 00 in support of the ‘A-Z Ultra Sealer for Precast Planters’ (ref: 6).
This was submitted for your approval on 17 June 2019 and responded to Status Code 2 on 19 July 2019 –
this is 1 calendar day later than the review period expressly stipulated at Article 1.3 of Specification
Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ (refer to Table 1) annotated with the comment that when
applied, the sealant was not to affect the colour of the precast concrete and the dolomite.
Table 1
Date submitted Submittal Ref Rev
Description of Contents Response due per Section 013300
Response received
Status Code
Overdue by (Calendar Days)
17-Jun-19
MS/0401/A/1756
00
A-Z Ultra Sealer for Precast Planters
8-Jul-19 9-Jul-19
2
1 day
The information recorded in Table 1 shows that you took 22 calendar days to reply to our Material
Submittal. Although the Contract specifies you have 21 calendar days to reply, given the current status
of the Project and the mutual desire to complete at the earliest possible time, any delay to approval of
our submittals at this stage, is wholly unacceptable and will invariably knock on and have a
consequential impact on our progress and delay us; this delay was otherwise wholly avoidable.
On the basis our material submittal was approved, we then proceeded with arranging a Mock-Up;
evidenced by our e-mail dated 27 July 2019 [4:53 PM], with the inspection being undertaken the
following day, i.e. 28 July 2019. Following which we received a further e-mail from you dated 30 July
2019 [4:57 PM] (ref: 7), copy attached hereto, which contain what we contend are a series of
unreasonable comments; this is despite us adhering to the manufacturer’s recommendations. The
information recorded in Table 2 below, records the particular comments in question, alongside which
we provide a response justifying why we believe those comments are unreasonable. This is based upon
the same comments conveyed to you via e-mail on 31 July 2019 (ref: 8); see copy attached.
Table 2
Item Engineer’s Comments Contractor’s Response
1
“Surface of the concrete is irregular, certain areas porous and not shiny, you may consider
polishing of the surface with diamond pads instead of sanding.” The surface should not be in question
considering the planters have been installed for some time, and have been approved. If you require us
to polish the surface this will require an EI / VO.

2
“Application of Sealer was done through sprayer techniques instead of brush & or roller, as
mentioned in the Sealer Technical Data sheet. This will affect the characteristics of the sealer as per
provided Specs sheet.” The data sheet states that “A-Z Ultra Sealer can be applied by brush, sprayer or
roller… A solvent-resistant hand-pump sprayer may also be used”. We used the latter as the method of
application by roller is good for flat and horizontal surfaces however, on surfaces that are curved and
vertical, like the planter, it will cause dripping effect and cannot be used.
3
“Sealer was not able to protect the surface while we applied coffee on the surface and kept it
overnight, stains are visible after cleaning, attached pictures.” Coffee was applied with an unrealistic
amount for an unrealistic time and performance of the sealer was very good.
4
“Additionally we applied crayons and ball point inc. pens and it is very challenging to remove it,
see attached pictures, still visible after cleaning, attached pictures.”
The excessive scribbles on the
planter took time and effort to remove completely but was successful. There are countless number of
surfaces in the MTB with public access that will not perform as well as the planter eg. columns, krion,
seating, etc.
5
“Sealant / Silicon between gaps was incomplete and has to be presented as well. Gaps are
irregular between the concrete modules.”
Sealant between panels have been applied in the E2
benchmark and approved. Gaps between the panels have been inspected and approved.
For the reasons explained in our e-mail dated 31 July 2019, we believe the sealant has performed very
well in the tests undertaken to date; but nevertheless, it is because of the length of time taken to
resolve this matter and the potential on-going delays associated with the sealant application that we are
compelled to raise this E-Notice. While acknowledging that the additional cost of the sealant is included
within SAA8, the implications of delay on the completion of the Works cannot possibly be construed as
forming part of the ‘included circumstances’ per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8; particularly in view of the fact
that you repeatedly failed to respond to our requests for you to advise the precise type of sealant /
coating to be applied and this was only resolved ‘by committee’ in May / June 2019.
Resultant Impact
Meanwhile, the protracted delays in the selection and approval of the hydrophobic coating (sealant) to
the precast concrete planters and seating throughout the MTB coupled with your unreasonable
comments recorded in Table 2, particularly at such a late stage of the Project, have the potential to
cause delay and disruption to our Works. We draw attention to the fact that there are circa 470 precast
planters located within the Terminal Building and the delays to the application of the sealant will
invariably knock on and impact upon our ability to achieve Milestone MS09B. Similarly, this has the
potential to prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Yours faithfully,
