
Subject:
Dear Sir,

Poor Performance 16 – Internal Glazing Works Lack of Performance

We write in reference to the Engineer’s letter referenced in (5) above and the Monthly Report for the
period ending March 2018, which includes the updated Programme to Completion as of 1 April 2018 and
Target Programme Rev 10.4 (Clean-up as of 1 February 2018). We hereby raise our concerns over your
continuous lack of performance in the Central Processor, Piers, and all Gatehouses.
One of the main purposes that the Subcontractor was requested to introduce the Clean-up programme
(01 February 2018) was to align the forecast dates and to mitigate the impact of delays for certain
trades. The programme shows slippage to all works types pertaining to the delivery and construction,
such as but not limited to Glass Screens, Glazing Pavilion, Glass Wall Lining, Utility Wall, as well as other
activities not included in the programme such as the light boxes and the Equipment band.
The slow progress of your scope of works has resulted in a negative impact on the programme since the
Glass Screen works is on the second critical path for Pier 4. We raise our concern that the ongoing delays
may not be recovered by the next monthly update as previously notified.
It is also recorded that the Abu Dhabi Civil Defence No Objection Certificate (NOC) is planned to be
issued on 9 August 2018 for Pier 4 and all works related to Al Ghurair have to be completed prior to the
start of Civil Defence inspection process. This allows only 3 months from the date of this letter yet the
relevant materials have not yet been delivered to site.
Your late delivery of materials has negatively impacted the installation works and subsequently
impacted the succeeding commissioning activities and the target interim completion dates. The lack of
progress has been discussed in the Weekly Meetings and in addition, all have been recorded and
informed to you via numerous notifications including but not limited to “Poor Performance (1) to (15).
In light of the above, you are instructed to immediately take action and submit a mitigation plan no later
than 7 days from receipt of this letter (that includes measures like the defective items such as survey,
procurement and installation) for the recovery of the current delays and to complete all activities as per
the required and committed dates.
You are again reminded that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by us and/or Other
Subcontractor/s arising as a result of the above delays shall be at your risk and recovered from your
account in accordance with the Subcontract clauses 10.3, 16.6.1 and other relevant clauses.
This is for utmost attention and immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
