
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Direction of reference 1) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.2.1
of Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith particulars in relation to the varied
scope, quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

Considering the ambiguity of the information received via letter reference 1) with regards to the exact
location of the Al Sudan remote entrance and the subsequent re-alignment of the relevant subway, the
Contractor has made an approximate cost estimate. Time delays are anticipated due to this amendment,
as clearly explained in Attachment 1), however the information provided is insufficient to estimate the
exact time impact on the Programme.

The Contractor has assessed the change impacts of this amendment and has concluded that the
following will be severely affected both in cost and time:

a.

Design

b.

Land acquisition

c.

Traffic diversion

d.

Utilities diversion (depending on the land availability and exact new location)

e.

Additional/more expensive Excavation Lateral Support (ELS) measures

f.

Additional construction costs

g.

Space for site installation

Detailed analysis of the above items can be found in Attachment 1).
The Contractor's detailed valuation of this variation is enclosed as Attachment 1 to this letter with
further supporting particulars in relation to its pricing methodology to be found in Attachment 2. The
Engineer has introduced a methodology to evaluate the abortive design in letter reference 2). Based on
this methodology and the progress evidenced in Attachment 2) the Contractor has evaluated the cost of
abortive design related to the Engineer’s Direction of reference 1). The details of this evaluation are
enclosed in Attachment 1) to this letter.

SN

DESCRIPTION

Amount (QAR)

A

CONSTRUCTION COST (Subway)

1

Cost reduction due to reduced subway length

2

Over-excavation and backfill

B

CONSTRUCTION COST (Entrance)

1

Additional ELS 1,330,000.00

2

Additional Construction Costs due to confined space

(600,000.00)

19,774.44

TBA

3
C

LEAD DESIGN

1

Estimation of design fee 1,391,829.28

TOTAL

2,141,603.72

In view of the insufficient information provided to make its accurate evaluation, the Contractor
concludes that the adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of QAR 2,141,603.72 as
detailed in Attachments 1) and 2).

In order to proceed with a more precise evaluation, the Contractor urges the Engineer to promptly issue
an Engineer’s Instruction under 13.1.1 containing the exact details of the available land.

The Contractor expects this proposal to be accepted by the Engineer’s Assistant at its current form with
no further attempts to recover unjustified savings. The Contractor reserves its rights to recover any time
related costs in connection to this Variation which shall be addressed under a separate cover.

We remain at your disposal for any further information and/or clarification.

Yours faithfully,
