Subject:
Response to the Subcontractor’s Letters – Back Charge Notifications
Dear Sir,
The Contractor writes in response to the Subcontractor’s letters reference (1) to (13) above, whereby
the Subcontractor has disputed the Contractor’s rights to recover from the Subcontractor the additional
costs, losses, expenses and damages that may be incurred by the Contractor, due to the Subcontractor’s
failure to comply with its contractual obligations. The Contractor notes that the Subcontractor’s letters
reference (1) to (13) above are in response to the Contractor’s notifications of claims by Other
Subcontractor (Cloisal CO. L.L.C.) for costs, monies, loss, expense, damages or otherwise, arising out of
or in connection with probable breaches of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the
Subcontract.
The Contractor rejects the Subcontractor’s allegation that the Contractor has failed to demonstrate the
clause or other basis of the claims, as the Contractor’s back charge notifications have clearly specified
the basis of notification as Sub-Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and
Other Subcontractors] of the Conditions of Subcontract. In accordance with Sub-Clause 12.12.4, the
Subcontractor shall be liable to the Contractor for any claim by the Employer, Other Contractors or
Other Subcontractors for costs, monies, loss, expense, damages or otherwise, arising out of or in
connection with a breach of or by the Subcontractor of its obligations under the Subcontract.
Please be advised that, in accordance with the express terms, as well as the implied terms of the
Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall be obliged to protect the Works and take necessary actions to not
delay or disrupt Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors. Pursuant to Sub-Clause 12.12.2.(c), the
Subcontractor shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to not delay or disrupt any Other
Contractor or Other Subcontractor. Moreover, Sub-Clause 24.1.1 [Indemnities] states that:
“The Subcontractor shall indemnify and hold the Indemnified Parties harmless against any and all losses,
liabilities, damages, fines, costs, expenses (including legal fees), demands, claims, actions or proceedings
which the Indemnified Parties may suffer or incur in respect of:
(a) bodily injury, sickness, disease or death, of any person; and
(b) damage to or loss of any real or personal property.
in each case as a result of or in connection with any acts or omissions of the Subcontractor, the Subsubcontractors or any of their respective employees, agents, representatives, Sub-subcontractors
and/or suppliers in connection with the Subcontract, the Subcontract Works or the Project…”(emphasis
added).
In light of the above, the Contractor reiterates that the Contractor’s back charge notifications related to
letters reference (1) to (13) above are based on the claims by the Other Subcontractor for costs, monies,
loss, expense, damages or otherwise, arising out of or in connection with breaches of or by the

Subcontractor of its obligations under the Subcontract. Please be advised that, those claims will be
assessed based on the terms and conditions of the particular subcontract.
Moreover, the Other Subcontractor’s obligations are administered in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the particular subcontract, which may not necessarily be similar to the terms and
conditions of the Subcontract for mechanical works. Moreover, the Other Subcontractor’s obligation to
care of its works shall not relieve the Subcontractor from any of its obligations under the Subcontract or
permit the Subcontractor to act negligently.
Considering the above, the Contractor shall hold the Subcontractor responsible for the incidences
related to letters reference (1) to (13) above and recover from the Subcontractor the associated costs,
losses, expenses and damages that may be incurred by the Contractor, resulted from the
Subcontractor’s breaches of its obligations under the Subcontract.
Yours faithfully,
