Dear Sir,

Further to the receipt of the letters referenced above the Contractor hereby provides its response to the
Engineer’s Assistant. For the avoidance of doubt, and for the purpose of demonstrating that the
statements contained therein do not stand up to scrutiny, the Contractor wishes to address those in
stages as follows:

The Engineer’s Assistant has stated on 24 May 2017 via letter reference 2), first paragraph:

“Engineer’s Assistant noticed that when the interfacing party MSI is requesting a schedule of workshops
to discuss the combined services drawings, to close the interface and for them to start preparing their
shop drawings, the Contractor has been unable to respond on time.”

The Contractor advises that this statement is incorrect. As a matter of fact, the System Contractor’s
discipline engineers (TVS and Energy staff from MHI) have been operating from within the Contractor’s
MEP technical office premises from April-17 until the end of May 2017. During this period, both parties
have been engaged in continuous coordination with technical workshops being scheduled on a daily
basis on account of the Systems Contractor’s containment requirements.

The Engineer’s Assistant expands further via the second paragraph of letter reference 2):

“The Engineer’s Assistant acknowledges the work of the Contractor’s Interface team to close CSD
requirements specific to the rail systems cable containment, but the concern is with the current set up
of the Contractor's organization related to Interface activity and the team responsible for providing the
evidence that the relevant requirements have been incorporated in the CSD models. With this current
organization, there is a significant risk that the interface cannot be closed on time.”

This statement contradicts with the statement of the preceding paragraph. In the context of this second
paragraph, the Contractor understands that the EA acknowledges “the work of the Contractor’s
Interface team to close CSD requirements specific to the rail systems cable containment” but raises
concerns in connection with the “current set-up of the Contractor’s organization related to Interface”
and in particular with the team responsible for “providing evidence that the relevant requirements have
been incorporated in the CSD models”. The Contractor is therefore uncertain as to the Engineer’s
Assistant’s position on this matter and kindly requests clarifications on whether the concerns raised via
letter reference 2) relate to:

A.
The execution of the Contractor’s interface obligations in conjunction with the Systems
Contractor i.e. the alleged failure to attend technical interface meetings when so requested by the
Systems Contractor in a timely manner, and / or;

B.
The Contractor’s ‘post-interface’ obligations by reason of its organizational set-up which is
somehow hindering its capability to provide evidence to the Engineer’s Assistant that the relevant
interfacing requirements have duly been incorporated within the CSD models.

The Contractor reiterates that it has a dedicated team within its MEP technical office responsible for the
development of the CSD models in conjunction with the Systems Contractor and its MEP designer,
Worley Parsons. The Contractor further maintains its position in respect of the late receipt of design
input by the Systems Contractor and the adverse knock on effects which arise as a consequence thereof.
For example, the Systems Contractor has still not signed and returned the ICF requirements in relation
to the TVS (Tunnel Ventilation System) services. The Contractor is mostly concerned however in respect
of the various interfaces which had been previously signed off and agreed with the Systems Contractor

and which are currently being rendered obsolete by reason of the late design development on the part
of the Systems Contractor.

Another point of concern relates to the meeting held on the 12 June 2017 in the presence of the
Engineer’s Assistant, between the Contractor and Systems Contractor represented by M/s Atlas, acting
in the capacity of subcontractor to the Systems Contractor for specialized telecommunication works.
During that meeting, the Contractor became aware of a potential radio network serving QAF / MOI 4G
requirements which if required will no doubt involve extensive cable containment installations across
the Project which have not been accounted for during the interfacing process undertaken to date.

The Systems Contractor (via its representative M/s Atlas) has admitted that it is currently in the process
of developing its detailed design but has failed to provide the Contractor with firm dates as to if and
when the same will become available to the Contractor. Irrespective of whether the Contractor will be
required to undertake additional works in connection to the above, and until such additional 4G
requirements for MOI and QAF have been properly accounted for, the Contractor will be unable to
conclude its interfacing obligations vis-à-vis the CSD models. Under those circumstances, and unless the
Systems Contractor’s detailed 4G design becomes available to the Contractor within seven (7) days from
receipt of this letter, the Contractor reasonably anticipates that extensive abortive and / or additional
MEP design works will be impossible to avoid.
The Engineer’s Assistant has raised further concerns via letter reference 3) requesting the Contractor to
present a clear process for the incorporation of the MSI requirements within its MEP design. The
Contractor emphasises that such process has already been established and strictly adhered to whereby
all the MSI requirements are being directly incorporated into the MEP models. Workshops are then
being held with the Systems Contractor to achieve agreement between the parties on the arrangement
of their services. Provided however that design input from the Systems Contractor is still being received
which either adds to and / or amends previously agreed interface arrangements the dates mentioned in
the CSD tracker (attachment 1) are subject to change.

With reference to letter reference 4) whereby the Engineer’s Assistant has requested the appointment
of a Lead Interface Engineer for all related CSD Interfaces, the Contractor confirms that it has appointed
Mr. Nikolaos Rouchotas as a dedicated Interface Engineer to oversee the coordination of CSD models.
The Contractor confirms adherence to Volume 4 of the Employer’s Requirements and considers that it is
not only meeting its obligations under the Contract but going over and above of what is required due to
late design development on the part of the Systems Contractor.

Yours faithfully,
