Subject:

Re: Notice to Correct

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter referenced (1) above and we hereby comment for each of your
respective points, as follows:
We are not aware of any meeting held between the Engineer’s Design Consultant M/S KPF and M/S
Prometal, regarding a site survey and the other matters discussed on the first paragraph of your
aforementioned letter. In the event that there was indeed a meeting with yourselves and the Engineer,
without our presence then this would be a failure to comply with the Project's communication protocol
and a breach of the Subcontract Agreement.
The Project Specifications are clear with respect to Design Responsibility, Project Conditions and
Coordination of works as stated in our letter referenced (2) above. Therefore, a formal instruction is not
required when the Specifications are clear. You are required to provide a field survey to adjust and
incorporate the site conditions within your design and provide shop drawings for approval. A mock up is
also required under the Specifications, which is yet to be submitted.
Your attention is also drawn to Specification Section 084126, Section 1.4 [Performance Requirements],
specifically to the Clauses shown below:
Clause 1.7 [Quality Assurance] and particularly Item 1.7F states that “All-Glass Door Hardware
Coordination: Coordinate all-glass door hardware schedule with doors and associated sidelights and
transoms, and related work to ensure proper size, thickness, hand, function, and finish of entrance door
hardware”.
Clause A 1.9 [Project Conditions] “Field Measurements: Verify actual locations of walls and other
construction contiguous with all-glass assemblies by field measurements before fabrication and indicate
measurements on Shop Drawings”.
Clauses under 1.10 [Coordination] particularly 1.10A state that you are required to “Coordinate size and
locations of recesses in concrete floors for recessed sliding tracks”.
In regards to the comments as per the second (2nd) paragraph of your aforementioned letter, we
reiterate that the Specifications are clear for the floor track and/or thresholds. Further to this, a meeting
with the Employer was held on 29th November 2017 wherein M/S Prometal/Assa Abloy conveyed that a
trackless system for telescopic sliding doors was available by M/S Assa Abloy. This was agreed at that
time by the Employer; and M/S Assa Abloy was required to submit the particulars. It is noted that the

breakout doors would all require a track. Your attention is drawn to Specification Section 084126,
Section 1.4 [Performance Requirements] Clause 2.10.H [Sliding Door Hardware] “Sliding Door Threshold:
Manufacturer's standard threshold members and bottom-guide track system, with stainless-steel, ballbearing-center roller wheels. 1. Configuration: No threshold across door opening and guide track system
at sidelites”.
With respect to your comments on the third (3rd) paragraph of your letter we note that due to late
submittals, shop drawings, delivery of material and installation, a temporary solution was required to be
provided by M/S Assa Abloy in order for M/S Assa Abloy to not be penalized for the delay of the Testing
and Commissioning works.
Our comments for paragraphs fourth to seven (4th to 7th) of your letter, is that you are required to
coordinate with the Contractor and other Subcontractors to complete the works as required, pursuant
to the Subcontract Clauses 12.11 [Cooperation] and 12.12 [Other Contractors and Other
Subcontractors]. As stated in numerous previous correspondences, this can be established by means of
continuous communication with our construction team and other Subcontractors, to ensure the timely
commencement and completion of the works.
Regarding your comments on the eighth (8th) paragraph of your letter, be informed that the shop
drawings are to reflect adjacent works and are required as per the Specification. Kindly refer to Section
1.6 [Submittals] of Specification Section 084126 [Performance Requirements].
We confirm that the matter discussed on the ninth (9th) paragraph has been resolved.
To address the issue on your last paragraph tenth (10th), we once again put on record that the
Programme issued by M/S Assa Abloy was never met. M/S Assa Abloy has caused numerous delays as P3
is still not finished. You are once again instructed to take immediate action, at no additional cost to us,
in order to complete your pending activities and submit your planned completion date with mitigation
measures to recover the delays caused by you.
To conclude, any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other
Sub-Contractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be
solely your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4
[Other Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
Yours faithfully,
