Dear Sir,

The Contractor once again refers to the content of its letters reference 9) and 11) whereby ample
evidence had been provided to the Subcontractor as to the particulars which unequivocally render the
supply and installation of armored cables not to be a change under the Subcontract. Whilst the content
of those letters is self-explanatory and needs not to be repeated herein, the Contractor hereby
reiterates its official determination pursuant to Clause 3.5.1 of the Subcontract as follows:

1.
Nil adjustment to the Subcontract Price. The requirement vis-a-vis armored cables has been, or
ought to have been included within the Subcontract Price as detailed within letter references 9) and 11).

2.
Nil adjustment to the Subcontract Time to Completion provided that the supply and installation
of armored cables does not constitute of a change under the Subcontract as per point (1) above.

Provided the extensive correspondence that has been exchanged between the Parties in what appears
to become a situation potentially harmful to the Contractor’s obligations under the Main Contract, and
for the purpose of preventing any further unnecessary delays the Contractor hereby requests the
Subcontractor to revert back to the Contractor immediately with explicit confirmation that it intends to
comply with its obligations under the Subcontract.
The Contractor hereby puts on record the effects that may arise out of potentially multiple breaches of
the Subcontract provisions on the part of the Subcontractor in an effort to resolve the issues regarding
the supply and installation of armored cables in the tunnels. The Contractor further submits that it will
no longer tolerate the Subcontractor’s conduct in respect of this matter which may cause delays to the
Subcontract Works for which the Subcontractor shall be held solely responsible.

The Contractor refers to letter reference 6) wherein the Subcontractor had been instructed to proceed
with the provision of armored cables in the tunnels pursuant to Clause 3.3.1 of Volume 3 of the
Subcontract. Notwithstanding the Subcontractor’s notice of letter reference 4) pursuant to Sub-Clause
3.3.4 of Volume 3 and the provisions of Sub-Clause 3.3.2 thereof the Subcontractor has then stated vide
letter reference 3) that it will not comply with the instruction until the issue of a variation pursuant to
Sub-Clause 13.

In the event whereby the aforementioned statement proves to be truthful, and the Subcontractor is
indeed staggering its procurement activities pending the issue of an instruction pursuant to Clause 13 by
the Contractor, then the Subcontractor will be held fully responsible for breach of contract:

Sub-Clause 3.3.2 of Volume 3 [Instructions by the Contractor]:

“The Subcontractor shall comply with the instructions given by the Contractor. Any instruction given by
the Contractor will not constitute an instruction under the Subcontract unless given in writing.”

Sub-Clause 8.5 of Volume 3 [Rate of Progress]

The Contractor will hold the Subcontractor fully responsible for the consequences arising out of such
potential breaches and the associated knock-on effects to the Contractor’s ability to administer its works
including any potential exposure to Liquidated Damages that may arise under the Main Contract with
the Employer. The Contractor hereby requests the Subcontractor’s immediate response with explicit
clarity on:

1.
Whether the Subcontractor has processed its procurement activities in relation to armored
cables or not.
2.
In the event that the Subcontractor has complied with its contractual obligations stated in point
(1) above, then the Subcontractor’s response must include as attachments all necessary evidence
(purchase orders, bill of materials, invoices etc.) proving same
3.

The anticipated delivery dates with all necessary evidence as per point (2) above.

Yours faithfully,
