
Dear Sir,

The Contractor hereby submits a proposal to revise the milestone payment schedules as detailed in
Volume 2 Part 7 Clause 9.2.1 of the Commercial Proposal. The primary focus is to split the milestones
percentages which improve the Cash Flow of the Project.

The Contractor has revised Section No. 2 – General Design and Procurement (DPMS), Section No. 4 –
Station Ras Bu Abboud (Airport City North) and Section No. 05 Tunnel Ras Bu Abboud (Airport City
North) to Qatar National Museum (Al Sharq / National Museum) for approval (see attached). All other
Stations and Tunnel Sections will be revised in accordance with the same principles after acceptance of
the Client.

The following are the main principle to be considered:

•

Payment of 100% for Progress

The Contractor has proposed that when the measure of 100% of the progress milestone has been
achieved that 97.5% of the payment is certified. The final 2.5% being withheld until a status code C,
Statement of No Objection (SONO) is issued. The code C SONO of the completed milestone will be
subject to issue of Quality Control documents in compliance with a Quality Control Procedure. A
proposal for this procedure is being compiled and will be issued to PMC by the 7th of May 2015.

•

Payment of 100% for SONO of Engineering Documents

The Contractor is proposing that a payment of 97.5% is made when a document receives a status code
D, No Objection with Comments (NOWC). The final 2.5% is withheld until the comments are dealt with
and code C-SONO is issued.

•
Milestone for set up of the factory to produce tunnel liners and ongoing production
percentages.

The Contractor is proposing to incorporate in Section No. 2 – DPMS new milestones for the factory set
up and the production of the tunnel liners. At this time, the Contractor has procured a factory and
produced approximately 16% of the total tunnel liners required for the Project but as these are included
in the progress milestones (TNMS) in the tunnel sections no payment is made until they are
incorporated in the works. The tender allowances for the factory set up and the materials have been
deducted from the individual sections for TNMS milestones and transferred to DPMS section No. 2.

The Contractor requests that this proposal is given urgent consideration to help with the project’s
cashflow. We are available to attend meetings and provide any further clarification required.

Yours faithfully,
