Dear Sir,

The Contractor refers to the Engineer's Assistant's letter at reference 2 instructing the Contractor
suspend the design of "Alignment of Tunnel sections at Al Rayyan to Doha Zoo" and "Alignment of
Tunnel sections at Al Rayyan to Muaither' (the "suspended works").

The Contractor responded via reference 1 confirming "we have complied with your instruction and
suspended design development on ...the tunnels as of the 21 July 2015 ...Ground investigation works for
the tunnels which had commenced has also been placed on hold as of 21 July 2015."

The suspension of the tunnels' designs has continued to the present day. Unfortunately, from 11
October 2015 , the suspension of the tunnels' designs is placing the Contractor in delay in completing
the design of each of the 2 tunnel Sections by their contracted 31 July 2017 Time for Completion dates.
The aforementioned 11 October 2015 longstop date for resumption of the tunnels' designs is based
upon the current "Programme" (i.e. the Contractor's approved CMP Revision B.00.05, dated 31
December 2014) which, until the Engineer accepts a revised Programme, has to be used pursuant to
General Condition ("GC") 8.3.3U) of Volume 3 of the Contract, for measuring and reporting progress and
assessing delays and extensions of time. The aforementioned date of 11 October 2015 is based upon the
following assumptions:
(1) the geotechnical investigations , when resumed, will not require any changes to the design based
upon

the geotechnical information contained within the Contract and, (2) the lifting of the suspension will
not involve any changes in alignment of the tunnels.

The Contractor is therefore now of the opinion that the Engineer's Assistant's suspens ion instruction for
the suspended works entitles the Contractor to receive extension(s} to the affected Time(s} for
Completion pursuant to GC 8.4.1{b} and GC 8.9.1(a} for any delays incurred and to receive additional
payment as an addition to the Contract Price for all additional costs and losses reasonably incurred
pursuant to GC 8.9.1{b}.

Accordingly, this letter serves (1} as the Contractor's "Extension" Notice pursuant to GC 8.4.2 and GC
8.9.1(a} that the Contractor is entitled to extension(s} to the relevant Time(s} for as a result of the
suspended works, (2) as the Contractor's "Cost" Notice pursuant to GC 8.9.1(b} that the Contractor
believes that it is entitled to reimbursement of all additional costs and losses reasonably incurred due to
the suspended works and, (3) as the Contractor 's "Claim" Notice for the suspended works pursuant to
GC 20. 1.2.

Please rest assured however that notwithstanding the above, the Contractor will endeavour, in
accordance with its contractual obligations, to mitigate any delays and additional costs incurred due to
the suspended works.

Yours faithfully,
