
Dear Sir,

We are pleased to invite your company to re-tender for the Utility Diversion civil works associated with
the Ooredoo Network which is conflicting with the proposed Gold Line stations at Doha Souq, Al Sadd
“C” Ring Road, Airport City North & Al Sharq National Museum Stations. The main objective for re-

tendering these works is to give the Tenderer an opportunity to revise his original price against
additional Q Rail clarifications and requirements which have now come to light in respect of the
proposed Utility Diversion works. This information has been detailed throughout the Tender Enquiry
documents attached for your review and consideration.

Accordingly, we enclose one (1) original copy of the Tender Conditions, Conditions of Contract and a CDROM containing all the documents outlined for your review and tender submission purposes. The Main
Contract Extracts are provided for your information. The Subcontractor must comply with all ALYSJ
method statements and procedures, all Employer Requirements as detailed in the Main Contract. The
Subcontractor is advised to arrange a site visit to ascertain site conditions and logistical issues.

You are requested to submit a price for the works on a “Lump Sum All Inclusive” basis as per the
attached Scope of Works, Schedule of Rates, Main Contract Extracts, Conditions of Contract, and actual
Site conditions, together with a list of available resources which will be used to ascertain your
capabilities and therefore the volume of work that will be assigned should you be successful in your bid.
Please note that the quantities mentioned in the schedule of rates are indicative of the actual works,
therefore the contractor must check the actual site conditions before pricing, to ensure this “Lump Sum
All Inclusive” price accounts for all items which may not be identified in the Appendices to this tender
but are still required for the satisfactory completion of this scope of works.

Your tender submission is to be fully compliant with the tender documents in all respects. Your
particular attention is drawn to the following sections of the documents which require your completion:

1.

Appendix A – Section 2.2 Acknowledgement of Tender Document

2.

Appendix A – Section 3

Form of Tender

3.

Appendix A – Section 5

Form of Statement of Compliance

4.

Appendix A – Section 6

Attachment A & B

5.

Appendix D – Schedule of Rates

In addition to the above, it is a mandatory requirement for the tender submission to be submitted under
the cover of company letter, signed by an authorized signatory, together with the following
documentation:

The Technical and Commercial components of the Tender are explained in item 2.7.1 in Appendix A
(Tender Conditions).

The Tender Document must be returned by hand in a sealed envelope, marked as “Original”; no later
than 12 Noon Saturday the 27th September 2014, to the following address:

ALYSJ Joint Venture
Package 3 – Gold Line Underground,
PO Box 24375,
Al Emadi Building, C-18
Airport Road, Beside DHL office,
Doha, Qatar

Attention: Mr. Michael Kelly - ALYSJ Commercial Department

If you have any questions / need for clarifications relating to the enclosed Tender Documentation during
the tender period, you are requested to send “Query Form” (which was provided in Appendix A Tender
Conditions) to the attention of:
Point of Contact: Mr. Michael Kelly
Telephone: +974 33 268312
Email: mkelly@goldlinemetro.qa
These queries and replies will be shared to all tenderers. Please kindly inform about the Tenderers
“Point of Contact” for this tender via the email address confirmed above.
We look forward to receiving your fully compliant tender on or before 12 Noon 27th September 2014.
Yours faithfully,
