Subject: Subcontractors' Revised Forecast for Balance Engineering Works
Dear Sir,
With regards to the outstanding Engineering Submittals of the MTB Project outlined in the attached
document (ref. attachment-1), the Subcontractor is requested to review its forecast for submission of all
items applicable to its scope of works, and to provide its realistic, achievable and conclusive ‘final
commitment dates’.
For Shop Drawing submissions and resubmissions, the latest submission dates shall not exceed 10
November 2018, beyond which any delay would jeopardize the planned delivery dates of the project.
For As-built Drawing submissions and resubmissions, the latest submission dates shall not exceed the
dates listed below for each completion stage of the Project, noting that stage demarcation has
previously been transmitted and lists of drawings for each stage have been confirmed individually to
each one of the respected Subcontractors:
As-built Drawing 'Late Dates'
Stage-1 (Pier 4) 03 November 2018
Stage-2 (Pier 3) 12 January 2019
Stage-3 (Pier 1) 12 February 2019
Stage-4 (Pier 2) 09 June 2019
Stage-5 (CP)
14 April 2019
Please note that through our previous letters, in accordance with forecasting principle established by
the Close-out team, more stringent dates had been targeted, however unfortunately the targets have
already been missed by a large majority of the Subcontractors. TCA JV has revised the forecasting
principle in an effort to mitigate the delays in as-built drawing delivery and revised forecasts have been
made by all concerned parties several times during the preceding year.
Further to these historical events, the above mentioned 'late dates' constitute a relaxation in
comparison to the dates previously communicated. However, as the Project completion approaches,
please note that the program no longer allows for any kind of further relaxation of as-built drawing
submission deadlines. In view of the foregoing, the above listed dates shall be strictly adhered as the
'final late dates' which require the Subcontractor's 'final commitment'.

The Subcontractor's immediate attention and confirmation is requested, and its response no later than
7 calendar days upon receipt of this letter is expected.
Further to the above, the Sub-Contractor is reminded of its responsibilities under the Sub-Contract
Agreement pursuant to Sub-Clause 12.1 (The Subcontractor’s General Obligations) and to comply with
the revised submission dates. Failure to comply with these revised dates the Contractor shall recover
any costs incurred from monies due or to become due from the monthly interim payments pursuant to
Sub-Clause 16.4 (Recovery of Delays), Sub-Clause 16.6 (Delay Damages) and Sub-Clause 10.3
(Contractor’s Claims) of the Sub-Contract Agreement.
Should the need arise for any clarification on the subject, kindly do not hesitate to contact TCA JV
Engineering.
Yours Faithfully,
