
Subject: Value Engineering Struct 02 and Struct 09
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge the receipt of your letter referenced above requesting information regarding Struct 02
and 09.
Before responding to the questions stated in your referenced letter, we would highlight some of the
relevant Contract conditions.
The Contract Documents, which were prepared by the Employer, define the obligations of the Parties.
Generally, the design of the Works are the obligation of the Employer, but more specifically the design
of the Accepted Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items are the sole obligation

of the Employer as stated in the Conditions of Contract at Clause 9.7.1, " ... For the avoidance of doubt
the
design of Value Engineering Items and Provisional Value Engineering Items shall be the responsibility of
the Employer ... ".
Furthermore, with regard to pre-Contract submissions and events, Conditions of Contract Clause 9.19
[Entire Agreement] states that " ... The Contract shall constitute the entire agreement between the
Parties
in relation to the Works and shall supersede and extinguish any previous agreements, arrangements,
understandings and representations relating to the Contract which are not set out in or expressly
incorporated into the Contract...".
Taking the above into consideration, we respond to your questions:
1. During the BAFO Stage who initiated the changes to the roof Steelwork that resulted in VE 02 and
VE09?
Struct 02 (VE 02) and Struct 09 (VE 09) were initiated by Employer in BAFO Stage, please refer to
Request for Best and Final Offer Document- Section 1- Clause 1.1 issued by ADAC on 14/02/2011.
2. From that starting point how did vour own proposal develop?
Our pricing of the Employer's proposed value engineering option was based on the limited
information provided by the Employer. Any sketches that we submitted for inclusion into the Contract
served only to explain how we had priced Struct 02 and 09 and to assist the Employer in
its investigation when value engineering the primary (Struct 02) and secondary (Struct 09) girders.
At no time have we offered a proposal for Struct 02 and 09 or undertaken to design these Accepted
Value Engineering items.
3. What was your recollection of how the VE's were established? Did you consider, or were you asked,
or instructed, to take on any design responsibility? And if so by whom?
At the Employer's request, VE proposals were submitted by tenderers in their 13 Nov 2011
submissions. We did not include any proposal for value engineering of the structural steel roof at
that time.
Subsequently the Employer issued a "Request for Best and Final Offer" (BAFO), wherein it was
stated that " ... Tenderers must provide cost savings for all the Value Engineering Items set out in
Section 4 of these BAFO Documents ... ". This was the first time that Struct 02 and 09 was made
available to TCA JV to price. Additionally, the BAFO documents stated that " ... None of the Value
Engineering Items are intended to be implemented by way of a Design-Build process ... ".
At no time did we consider nor have we been instructed to take any design responsibility or liability
for these value engineered options.
The Contractor is ONLY responsible to " ... cooperate and coordinate with the Employer and the
Master Architect ... " in the finalisation of the necessary design when required by the Employer or
the Engineer.
4. Who do you believe carried the risk for the VE's as they were lump sum savings forming part of the
Contract Sum and not subject to variation?
The scope of Accepted Value Engineering items is defined by Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 (Bill of
Quantities), which shall be holistically explanatory according to the Value Engineering Items
definition in the Contract.
The Contract is clear that the Employer is 'solely' respo nsible for the design of the Works and the
full development of value engineering options. Therefore, the risk of implementation to secure the
benefit of the value engineering savings lies with the Employer.
In the event the value engineered option were to be fully developed within the intent of the VE
description, the commercial risk lies with the Contractor.
In the event the value engineered option were to be partially developed, then the commercial risk

lies with the Contractor for that part developed and with the Employer for that part not developed.
The Accepted Value Engineering items have been priced lump sum against the definitions in
Schedule 24 and Schedule 6 (Bill of Quantities). The Contract does not state that the lump sum
amounts are not subject to variation. On the contrary, in the event a Value Engineered item was
not instructed through IFC Drawings by the Employer or the extent of the value engineered part
was not in accordance with the defined scope of the Accepted Value Engineering item then this
would be a Variation to the Contract. This is confirmed by the Engineer in its letter ref: MTC-CMATCA0401-LTR-00093 dated 21 November 2012 (copy attached marked "A").
In conclusion, the risk for design and implementation of value engineered items in accordance with
the Contract remains fully with the Employer. 5. With the design of the VE's still to be completed whv
were the VE's included in the contract as 'firm'
figures and not provisional VE and why did you accept them?
We respectfully suggest that you liaise with the Employer's cost consultant for the answer to this
one. The Employer issued the Tender and BAFO documents and the tenderers complied.
6. When were you informed and by whom that the revised steelwork design of the roof as envisaged
by VE 02 and VE 09 had been abandoned and that you were to construct the roo{in accordance with
the IFC drawings? Do you have documentary evidence that you can provide to support your view?
The Contract contains Milestone E1020 for the issuance of "IFC Drawing & Specs for Structural Stee l
Installations" by 8 December 2012, being 105 days after NTC.
On 17 October 2012, at a meeting with ADAC, the Engineer and ourselves, it was noted that ARUP
assessment of primary girders was that the value engineering Struct 02 would not be achieved. In
addition it was noted that ARUP's design remit excluded arches and backstays thereby limiting the
full potential to investigate value engineering savings. Our letter 0054 dated 18 October 2012,
attached marked "B", made further suggestions to the Engineer for value engineering the design.
On 24 October 2012 a telephonic conference took place between the Employer, Engineer, KPF,
Arup, RBG (China State engineering consultant) and ourselves. The Minutes of this meeting (ref:
reference MTB-ACM-VES-MOM-0009, attached marked "C") record that the " ... Primary girders will
remain as designed and as shown in the IFC Drawings ... ". Further, the Minutes stated that
" .. .Secondary girders ... will be re-designed by ARUP ... ".
By Contract, we are obliged to follow the instructions of the Engineer and to construct the Works in
accordance with the IFC Drawings issued to us under the instruction of the Engineer from time to
time.
Due to the substantial number of IFC Drawings issued under Bulletins and responses to thousands
of RFI's, we have not been able to establish if Struct 02 and 09 were implemented in full or partially
until the last of the related IFC Drawings had been issued by the Engineer.
7. Why in your view was the revised steelwork design rejected?
We respectfully suggest that you liaise with the Employer's design consultant for the answer to this
one. As the Employer is responsible for the design of the Works and the Accepted Value
Engineering items is defined by Schedule 24, we are not in the position to respond.
8. Can you show that your VE 02 and VE 09 proposals would have worked, meeting all the
requirements of the design brief and the specification.
Please note that Struct 02 and 09 were the Employer's proposals and not ours. In addition the
Employer was in fu ll control of the design and privy to all design information, and not us. Kindly
coordinate with the Employer's design Consultant for the answer to this question.
A question that perhaps should be asked of the design Consultant is:
Had the design Consultant been given more time (assuming construction had not commenced)
co uld he have developed Struct 02 and Struct 09 into an alternative design that would have met

all the requirements of t he design brief and the specification? 9. When VE 02 and VE 09 were not
carried out why did it take you until April 2015 to raise this issue as
a claim?
We have not raised the issue of Struct 02 and 09 as a claim for not being carried out.
In the absence of a Variation Order, or instruction of the Engineer, that the Employer would not be
implementing Struct 02 and 09, and having completed our interrogation of the numerous Drawings
issued for the structural steel roof at that time, we have submitted our RFVO's 0401 and 0500 on
30 April 2015 and 11 April 2015 respectively for the reversal of the Accepted Value Engineering
amounts - the Employer having failed to take up these VE options.
We would advise that the last IFC Drawings issued, which could have contained design changes
related to Struct 02 and 09, were contained in Bulletin 167 issued to us on 29 June 2015.
10. Did you ever submit a formal claim? /( so when? And to whom? Can we please have a copy of that
claim?
The reversal of Accepted Value Engineering item amounts if not implemented is a variation to the
Works for which we make RFVO submittals. Only after receiving the Engineer's rejection of this
submittal would we be compelled to make a claim under clause 27.1.
We trust that our responses above will assist the Engineer to conclude that our RFVO submissions are
just and that the Accepted Value Engineering items Struct 02 and 09 are to be reversed, a Variation
Order issued for the submitted amounts and payment made by the Employer as a matter of urgency.
In any event, our response above have been made in the spirit of cooperation and are made without
prejudice to our rights under the Contract and at Law.
Yours faithfully,
