Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Assistant letter of reference 2) the Contractor encloses herewith the requested
particulars pertaining to the valuation of 1:1 Mock-Up works on the basis of actual and future
anticipated design, procurement, construction and running expenses by means of twelve (12) correlated
Appendices.

The Contractor had commenced its quantity take-offs immediately upon receipt of the said letter
however the relevant drawings at the time did not permit a conclusive valuation due to the continuous
design changes that were imposed. In parallel, the Contractor has carried out its segregation and
quantification of the actual costs attributable to each of the measured quantities on a strictly
standardized, BoQ line-item basis.

The completion of both undertakings has now given rise to the 1:1 Mock-Up Bill of Quantities attached
to this letter as Appendix A, the format and pricing methodology of which have been kept in-line with
standard industry practices. Adjacent to each of the BoQ line items, the Contractor has provided the
reference(s) to the relevant Appendix (or Appendices, as the case may be) where some or all of the
underlying actual costs forming the basis of the calculated unit rate for each of the said BoQ line items
are to be found.

By means of example, the bill rates against all HVAC-related line items have been calculated on the basis
of the actual cost records contained within Appendix [K]. The said Appendix contains the list of all HVAC
cost-related items procured by the Contractor with clear reference as to the item description, the dry
unit cost, the quantities, the vendor name and the respective Work Order, Purchase Order and / or Hire
Order number as the case may be.

Currently, the Contractor has appended eleven (11) out of twelve (12) Appendices excluding only
Appendix F which relates to the actual WO/PO/HO documents and their respective proof of payment,
and which is still under preparation due to the high volume of accounting document recoveries. The
final submission therefore including reference to proof of payments has been scheduled for submission
on this coming Monday, 4th of July.

Such proof of payment documentation along with its seamless link to the segregated cost summaries of
Appendices B, C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K and L and to the Bill of Quantities of Appendix A was not explicitly
requested by the Engineer’s Assistant vide letter reference 2) but was nevertheless undertaken by the
Contractor in the spirit of the open-book policy prescribed in General Condition (“GC”) 13.7.2 of Volume
3 of the Contract.

Provided that the quantum of this valuation shall remain unchanged, this present submission suffices for
the purpose of providing 1) a “Comprehensive Bill of Quantities of all works involved”, 2) “Evidence of all
activities and related breakdown” and 3) “Evidence of the interrelation between the Bill of Quantities
and the documents attached to the aforementioned Contractor’s letter” as requested via letter
reference 2).

The upcoming final submission shall therefore address the last item raised by the Engineer’s Assistant
via letter reference 2) i.e. “the total and certified cost to date”, whereas the current request for further
evidence that may be required with regards to the “controlling measures, including all steps that were
taken by the Contractor in order to prevent, mitigate, and minimize the total cost of the alleged
variation” could now be much further particularized and expressed with reference to any bill item
potentially deemed to suffer from such deficiencies by the Engineer’s Assistant.

Yours faithfully,
