Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0084
Overdue Responses to 19 Security Access Control System (SACS) Shop Drawings as at 18 April 2019
[issued vide 10 Shop Drawing Submittals]
Dear Sir
Pursuant to the Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we
hereby submit this notice (‘E-Notice’), in consideration that the events and / or circumstances described
herein may cause delay [and disruption] to the Works.
The Event(s):
On 31 March 2019, we submitted 10 Shop Drawing Submittals containing 19 Shop Drawings in respect of
the Security Access Control System (SACS), for your review and approval, in the manner and on the
dates recorded in Annex A hereto.
Article 1.3 of Specification Section 013300 ‘Submittal Procedures’ governs the processing time by which
you are contractually obligated to respond to our submittals. On the basis that each of the Shop
Drawing Submittals listed in Annex A are shown to be at Rev 02 and higher, then these ought to have
been responded to by you 7 calendar days later. However Annex A shows that your responses to the
SACS As Built Submittals noted therein were late and overdue by 6, 7 and 8 calendar days.
The Security Access Control System Subcontractor, ATLAS, has written on this event also, notifying us of
the right to claim the additional time and cost impacts arising therefrom; a copy of their letters ref: (2)
and (3) above, are attached for your information and reference.
Potential Impact:
Your prompt approval of Shop Drawings in respect of the SACS is an essential requisite in enabling us
obtain the Building Completion Certificate (BCC). This is critical to the achievement of Milestone No.
MS09B. Consequently, any late and overdue responses to our Shop Drawings, including those listed in
Annex A hereto, has the potential to impact our ability to achieve Substantial Completion.
Action Required:
On the basis that the responses to all 19 SACS Shop Drawings have been responded to, there is no action
required on your part on this occasion. Nevertheless, in keeping with our obligations under Clause 2.26
of SAA8, this E-Notice simply serves to notify you that the late and overdue responses to the nineteen
(19) SACS Shop Drawings Submittals referenced herein may cause delay to the Works.
Accordingly, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
Yours faithfully,
