Dear Sir,

Further to the e-mail correspondence of attachment 1) the Contractor hereby notes that the direction
contained therein consists of preferential engineering on the part of the Engineer’s Assistant and / or
the Employer which if instructed in accordance to Clause 13 of Volume 3 of the Contract will have
substantial cost and time implications to the supply and execution of the special system works.

The Contractor refers to the Instruction of reference 1) “Engineer’s Instruction – Sub-Clause 13.7.1
General Conditions of Contract in relation to VHTS Provisional Sums” which states that “the Engineer
confirms that, for the work under the VHTS Subcontract, to the extent of any inconsistency between the
Employer’s Requirements in the Main Contract and the Contractor’s Requirements in the VHTS
Subcontract, the VHTS Subcontract Contractor’s Requirements shall prevail” [Emphasis Added].

In the context of the foregoing, the Contractor refers to Sub-Clause 4.8.2 of Volume 6 of the VHTS
Subcontract enclosed herewith as attachment 2) for easy reference which states:

“The unit controller is to include for the facility to interface with the station BACS system, enabling
remote control and monitoring of the unit. The communication protocol and network connectivity is to
be IP or as confirmed by the Contractor”

Notwithstanding the foregoing subcontract provision, the Contractor notes that this very issue was also
raised during the tender process between the Employer and the various tenderers on account of the
VHTS Framework Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the Contractor encloses herewith as
attachment 3) to this letter the Tender Bulletin No.20 with particular emphasis to the Tender
Clarification RTC/123/0602 tabulated below for easy reference:

Tender Clarification Ref:
Employer’s Response

Tender Clarification (as enquired by the VHTS Subcontractor)

RTC/123/0602 Escalators: in point 4.7 the tender documents require the escalators and moving walks
to be interfaced with the station BACS system. On the other hand, in point 4.8 the escalators and
moving walks are required to have their own monitoring system. Can you please clarify? The Tendered
shall comply with the tender specifications i.e. escalators shall be interfaced with BACS system and shall
have independent monitoring system.

To put things into perspective, the Engineer’s Assistant’s e-mail of attachment 1) directs the Contractor,
and hence the VHTS Subcontractor, to adopt the exact contrary (in terms of the VHTS / BACS interface
concept) when compared to what was envisaged during the Framework Agreement tender, on the basis
of which the VHTS Subcontractor had submitted its commercial proposal to the Employer. For the sake
of clarity, the conceptual technical principles underlying the commercial issues set out herein have been
enclosed as attachments 5) and 6) to this letter.

On the basis of the foregoing, the Contractor concludes that the directions contained within attachment
1) and the discussions held in the technical workshops referred to therein consist of preferential
engineering on the part of the Employer and / or the Engineer’s Assistant which are over and above the
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract and which if implemented would give rise to additional cost
and time implications as follows:

1.
Additional VHTS hardware costs. Approximately 280 additional custom made KONE interface
controllers (KIC’s) would be required over and above the 30 units envisaged by the Contract provided
that one dedicated KIC Industrial PC would be required per VHTS unit. The VHTS Subcontractor has
verbally confirmed to the Contractor that the cost associated with each KIC unit is circa EUR 6,000 and
hence with a conservative QR/EUR exchange rate that would translate in an overall cost to the Employer
in the range of QR 7 Million.

2.
Additional costs on account of software integration requirements and OPC licenses that would
be required from the BACS Subcontractor. The latter has verbally confirmed to the Contractor that each
OPC license and associated software integration would cost USD 5,000 per VHTS unit, that is, yet
another additional cost element to the Employer in the range of QR 5 Million.

3.
Additional procurement, design and engineering resources by the Contractor and both special
system Subcontractors. The Contractor encloses via attachment 4) the letter reference M006-KQA-PMTLTR-00022 that was received by the VHTS Subcontractor on 11 May 2017 on the subject detailing the
bespoke engineering work associated with such preferential engineering.

Whilst noting once again that the VHTS/BACS interface proposal of attachments 1) and 5) consists of
additional work under the Contract valued in excess of QR 10 Million, the Contractor submits that unless
it receives an instruction pursuant to Clause 13 of Volume 3 of the Contract [Variations and
Adjustments] it will proceed with its interfacing obligations on the basis of the VHTS / BACS interface
concept of attachment 6) which is fully compliant with both the Employer’s Requirements and the
Framework Agreement tender documentation in all material respects.

Yours faithfully,
