Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0204
Engineer’s Unreasonable Requests to Carry out Full Surveys for all installed Camera Conduits at various
locations– Request for Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and Variation Order (VO) in order to integrate
Variation / Change into Works
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters discussed in Annex A hereto, concern delays associated with the receipt of unreasonable
comments endorsed on each of the Non-Conformance Reports (NCR) referenced therein, associated
with the requirement for us to carry out “a site-wide investigation and provide … [a] report and action
plan” and “carry out a full surveillance for all other areas ... in order to avoid any damages.”
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events and circumstances outlined herein at this stage of the Project is
likely to impact on the achievement of Milestones MS9B and MS9C (Substantial Completion).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delay and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned within seven (7) days of receipt of this e-notice.
Meanwhile, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
We write to notify you of our concern in relation to unreasonable comments annotated on various NonConformance Reports (NCR), including but not limited to the three NCRs listed in Table 1 below, in
relation to the requirements for us to carry out full surveillances and investigation reports for all
external power outlets, missing components and camera conduits installed on site, as applicable.
Table 1
NCR ID Date Date Received Location
Description
Defect Description
MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01510 5-Dec-19
9-Dec-19
CP, Level-L0.0, Sector-5.13C and 5.130
External Power Outlets Without lnbuilt RCD Protection “It has been observed that the external
power outlets are installed without inbuilt RCD protection which is contrary to the requirement of
ADWR Clause 7.1.14 & Guidance Note G7 (c) and the RFI # 13660 response. Refer attached ADWR
Clause 7.1.14 & Guidance Note G7 (c), RFI # 13660 response and site photos. The Contractor to carry out

a full surveillance for all the external power outlets and make sure all power outlets in external area
shall be as per approved material submittal MS/0401/E/0379”
MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01518 12-Dec-19
18-Dec-19
CP, Level 3.0, CSP
Missing
of
SMDB/FDB Internal Components after CMA Inspection at CP
“SMDB & FDB Verification for the
above-mentioned panel were already completed and accepted by CMA with full components. Later, it
was noticed that the internal components of these SMDB’s & FDB were removed as a result wire
terminals are exposed which is an unsafe practice and it is not in accordance with Project Specification.
The Contractor to carry out a full surveillance for all other areas and to provide its final investigation
report on an urgent basis in order to avoid any possible incidents, in particular, for the energised/nonenergised panels. In addition to this, all missing components to be re-fixed. The Contractor is to carry
out a site-wide investigation and provide its report and action plan”
MTC-CMA-0401-CM-NCR-01432 22-Oct-19
11-Dec-19
CP-Level 2.0 Sector 5.24D
Camera
Conduit Damages - CP CMA observed that the camera conduits are damaged in CP-L2.0-5.24D for
camera id: L2.0-1291 and L2.0-1231 and CP-L20-Check-in island. These locations have been previously
inspected; the damage has occurred subsequent to approval of the applicable WIR. The Contractor to
rectify the damaged conduit and provide WIR for re-inspection.
As part of NCR CAPA, the Contractor is requested to carry out a full surveillance for all other areas and to
provide their final investigation report on an urgent basis in order to avoid any damages”.
As noted, the requirement for us to “carry out a full surveillance” and “investigation report[s]” has been
triggered due to a combination of various issues, some of which occurred after the works had been
previously completed and inspected. By way of specific example, NCR-01432 (ref: 3 in Table 1) records
that certain camera conduits to Level 2.0 Sector 5.24D [camera ID refs: L2.0-1291 and L2.0-1231 have
been damaged despite the locations having been previously inspected (Figure 1 refers).
Figure 1
It is not known how this damage has occurred or by whom. Nevertheless, in instances such as this, as
well as the others identified in Table 1, then it goes without saying that upon identification of the cause
and extent of damage caused and/or the reason for any alleged non-conformance, then the damage and
non-conformance will be remedied and rectified immediately. Accordingly, you will be requested to
close out any such NCRs following completion of any associated remedial measures.
However, your request for us to undertake inter alia “a full surveillance”, “investigation report[s]” and “a
site-wide investigation and provide … [a] report and action plan” of the areas / works subject to each of
the NCRs, as well as “carry out a full surveillance for all other areas ... in order to avoid any damages” is
taking matters too far; and is excessive, unnecessary, and unreasonable.
Amongst other things, you have not taken cognisance of the myriad works/areas that are currently
being inspected [not just those noted above] and failed to consider the ramifications as well as the
practicalities involved if such requests become common place. As recorded in our e-mail dated 16
December 2019 [12:44 PM] we advised: “With the many check points activities after WIR approvals such
as Commissioning, Snagging, Punch Listing etc. it would be not practical at this point of the project to
ask Full Site Surveillance if you observed something on site for some defective devices which in fact it
was installed correctly as evident with the previous WIR approvals.”
Moreover, full detailed surveys of this nature will require the allocation of a vast amount of resources
and will necessitate complicated coordination and permits from numerous other trades, and / or other
contractors [particularly at this stage of the Project], while inspections (i.e. WIR, CIR, snagging, desnagging, punch-lists) are currently being carried-out as per the Contract requirements for the same
works, is unnecessary, excessive and will only delay the Time for Completion of the Works.
We are also given to understand that further NCRs are continuing to be issued by you conveying similar
requirements to those described above. This will simply exacerbate matters further still.

For the avoidance of doubt, we reiterate that if damages are found into the works which we are liable /
accountable for during the WIR/CIR/snags etc. inspections, then we will allocate resources for the
rectification of all non-compliance and will ensure adherence to the target schedule for completion.
Therefore, we would argue that we are under no obligation to carry-out independent surveys for each of
the installed camera conduits as requested in your NCR comments. This is particularly the case where,
in respect of NCR-01432 (ref: 3 in Table 1) you are requesting us to “carry out a full surveillance for all
other areas ... in order to avoid any damages.” Nonetheless, if you insist us to do so, then this will
require a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO). In which case, as you know, SAA8
laid down strict guidelines to follow if additional works are required and this appears to have been
ignored. Hence this will warrant a valid Engineer’s Instruction (EI) and a Variation Order (VO) if you
require us to proceed with independent surveys into the Works.
We therefore take this opportunity in also reminding you of the provisions of Clauses 2.29 to 2.31 of
Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’) pertaining to Variations, in so far as we are not to
proceed with any Variation unless a Variation Order and a Time/Cost Record have been issued first. In
which respect, it is your obligation to issue this Record first if you wish to instigate change; this is only
after the additional time and/or costs impacts have been agreed between us beforehand.
Meanwhile, until such time as you issue us the necessary Instruction / VO, we are unable to proceed
with implementing such investigations etc., noted above and will continue to proceed in accordance
with the current WIR, CIR, snagging, de-snagging, punch-list processes and final handing over.
Yours faithfully,
