Subject:Basement Water Leaks
Dear Sir
We refer to your letter (2) issued in response to the ‘Third Party Report Evaluation of the Current Leak
Condition and Repair Methodology’ submitted under cover of our letter (2), as well as refer to your
subsequent letter of reminder (3) in connection with the captioned matter and write as follows.
Since your letter (2) was issued, a joint inspection was undertaken on 28 October 2019 to inspect the
water leakages to the affected rooms in Basement Level LB.2. This was witnessed by representatives
from ADAC, AECOM and the TCA JV. Following which a detailed report conveying the findings of that
inspection were issued to you under our e-mail dated 31 October 2019 [17:38 PM] (copy attached).
Following which, attached to a further e-mail dated 20 November 2019 [1:48 PM], we issued a similar
report for Basement Level LB.1 reflecting a joint survey undertaken between ADAC, AECOM and the TCA
JV on 20 November 2019 (a further copy of our e-mail and report is also attached hereto).
With this in mind, and as requested under your letter (3) we herewith provide the following response to
your letter (2) using the same approach and corresponding paragraph references / nomenclature.
Para 2: You cite the ‘repeated and widespread distribution of observed leaks’ and allege that this is
indicative of the waterproofing system having been compromised in multiple locations thus ‘allowing
long term persistent ingress of groundwater.’ You also make a statement about the design life of the
building and that the building structure was designed to be ‘water tight.’ The Main Terminal Building is
still water tight. Moreover, while accepting there is some localised water leaks in limited numbers, we
find your comments about the widespread leakages to be over-exaggerated; this is not reflected within
the two reports for Basement Levels LB.1 and LB.2 issued under the above noted e-mails. Our e-mail
dated 31 October 2019 expressly advised you that [following the injection of sealant by our specialist
subcontractor] the water leakage has not only been rectified but is ‘under control’.

Para 3: As regards allegations of crystal salt deposits having been observed on the internal concrete
walls, we confirm having found evidence of some minor crystal salt deposits only but maintain that this
is not indicative of high salinity groundwater as alleged, but rather comes from dampness – attributable
to the spillages and leaks that have occurred during testing and commissioning. This has since been
addressed and the limited areas of affected walls have now been cleaned and made good.
Para 4: There is no evidence or findings whatsoever to suggest that there is an ‘aggressive’ ingress of
groundwater nor is the alleged corrosion of concrete and reinforcement likely to result in ‘significant’
degradation of the structure. These statements are at best excessive and over the top and are not in
keeping with the actual situation on site. All of the cracks have been repaired in accordance with the
approved Method Statement and in keeping with the ‘Repair Methodology’ described above.
Para 5: Your statement on ‘prolonged water ingress’ and the consequential effects such as purported
‘environmental hazards …which can become airborne and spread throughout the building fabric’, is
particularly excessive and ‘over the top’, especially considering the minor damage that has occurred.
Para 6: As regards your comments as to whether we reassess our repair methodology and ‘explore
whether a more effective / permanent rectification solution should be considered’, we can only repeat
what we have stated above. We have rigidly followed the approved Method Statement as well as the
recommendations described within the Third Party report and Repair Methodology described above.
That said, we will nevertheless check with our specialist subcontractor to investigate if an alternative
methodology can be adopted.
Para 7: We find your comments in relation to alleged future loss of availability and functionality of the
building due to entry of groundwater through the basement to be excessive and paints a picture of
potential wholescale impacts on the design service life of the MTB. This is simply not true. We have
already addressed the leakages and do not see this as being that critical as portrayed by you. .
Para 8: It appears you are inferring that we have some way failed to properly inject the cracks. This is
not true. We have undertaken the crack repairs in accordance with the recommendations of the Third
Party and Repair Methodology and have kept injecting the cracks until the entire crack is filled.
Para 9: As regards your comments regarding the resin and its ability to penetrate cracks up to 100
microns, at the risk of being repetitive, we have utilised VANDEX resin material as recommended in the
Third Party report and Repair Methodology.
Para 10: We totally disagree with your statement that we have ‘failed to conduct regular a regular crack
monitoring regime to identify and track crack locations and propagation’. We are undertaken regular
inspections on a weekly basis and we are sharing our findings with all concerned parties i.e. ADAC and
yourselves. To allege otherwise is simply not true. This also applies to your allegations that we have
‘acted to the contrary and covered up and put out of reach many areas where ground water has since
ingressed’. This statement is wholly unacceptable and completely misguided. We have not ‘covered’
anything up. The floor, wall and ceiling finishes to both basements have been completed for some
considerable time. Nevertheless, where any isolated water leaks have been found, we have removed
any finishes or coverings and made good the affected areas; all of which are non-structural. Regarding
water penetration manifesting itself in building ‘void area’, we assume you are referring to the
travellator (future) void. Approximately 50mm of water had accumulated in a particularly discrete area
over a long period of time which we have since removed, and injected the affected structure. The water
ingress has since ceased but nevertheless we have installed a permanent access panel that will allow us
to continue to monitor the situation. Furthermore, we have not found any evidence of ‘excessive’
corrosion of exposed reinforcement steel, despite your allegation that you have, and we further deny
that any of the cracks were not properly injected and/or was injected ‘haphazardly’.
Para 11: For the reasons stated above, we do not believe it is necessary to strip back ‘all materials and
finishes to get back to the structural elements’ to undertake crack mapping and inject the same. This is
a major undertaking and wholly unnecessary. Also, we fail to see why when there are only minor

localised leakages in limited numbers, why it would be necessary to require ‘all metal elements affixed
to the concrete structure to be removed, stripped back to the base metal and re-galvanised.’ This is a
completely over-the-top scenario and is not in keeping with the nominal localised leakages. If however
you continue to insist that we strip back ‘all materials and finishes to get back to the structural
elements’, then we insist that you define the requisite areas and issue an EI for us to do so.
Para 12: Again we consider your statements along the lines of there being ‘widespread’ observations of
corroded nots, bolts and washers, and evidence of ‘aggressive’ rusting to be extreme; so too is the
suggestion that we engage a metallurgical test agency to conduct testing simply because you now allege
the quality and suitability of previously approved fixings is ‘called into question’. This is simply
ridiculous. We will continue to wire brush any affected fixings and apply galvafroid if necessary.
Para 13: Your suggestion that we engage a specialist corrosion / concrete / petrographic specialist to
‘further test the existing structure’ is particularly excessive, and is completely nonsensical; particularly
given your suggestion that the specialist ‘provide an estimate of the current concrete design life.’
However, as a gesture of good will, we will seek an expert’s opinion if deemed necessary.
Para 14: For the reasons already outlined for para 11, we take great exception to your allegations that
we have ‘covered up’ areas where dampness has occurred. This is not the case at all. We are also
perturbed by the inference that we have not been open or transparent. As noted above in our
comments alongside para 10, we continue to undertake regular inspections on a joint basis each and
every week and we will continue to share our findings with both ADAC and yourselves. In which case,
and as noted above, we herewith provide further copies of the findings and outcome of the previous
inspections for Basement Levels LB.2 and LB.1 held on 28 October 2019 and 20 November 2019. You
are kindly requested to sign where indicated in confirmation of the said findings inspected by you.
Meanwhile, we continue to assure you as we have done in our e-mail dated 31 October 2019 [17:38 PM]
that the water leakage is under control but notwithstanding we will closely monitor the situation and
attend immediately in case of any visible dampness. This is similarly echoed in our e-mail dated 20
November 2019 [1:48 PM], advising you that [in the case for Basement Level LB.1] our report shows that
very few places have been affected and the majority of rooms are ‘clear’ of any dampness. That said
any requisite rectification works to Basement Level LB.1 have been completed.
Under the circumstances we trust you will release the sum of AED 500,000 currently being withheld
against Non-Conformance Report (NCR) No. MTC-CMA-0401.CM-NCR-01356 dated 15 August 2019.
Yours faithfully,
