Subject: Delay in Submission of As-built Drawings
Dear Sir,
We write in continuation to our letter reference (2) and in response to your letter reference (3) above,
regarding the subject matter. After reviewing the Schedule enclosed in your letter (3), please note the
following:
•
Dates for Pier-4 are exceeding the latest date required for Pier-4, i.e. 3rd May 2018. This is not
acceptable since it will affect Pier-4 taking over;
•
You have provided submission dates only for the drawings under ‘mandatory’ action category,
however, our previous letters and emails have explained that the full list of drawings must be submitted,
where ‘action: mandatory/elective’ indicates the operator’s priorities. Hence, all drawings require
submission dates;
•
The above will exclude mock-up drawings which already have corresponding permanent works.
Mock-up drawings will be marked for cancellation from the as-built list, and submission will not be
required;
•
Any work which has been completed on site should be encouraged for early as-built submission
to prevent overload of as-built drawings at the time of deadline of each completion stage.
In view of the above, this letter is to put on record your delays and instruct you as per Clauses 11.3
[Instructions of the Contractor] and 8 [Subcontractor’s Obligations] to take appropriate action as stated
above and to ensure that you meet the targets accordingly. Failing such, we shall hold you responsible
and backcharge all associated costs (if any) from your account according to the Conditions of the
Subcontract Agreement, for your failure to comply with your contractual obligations.

Meanwhile, we request you to confirm that the dates as per the Schedule attached herewith can be
met. Please note that the dates provided therein, are the latest acceptable dates and are not negotiable.
In case you can confirm earlier dates than the ones mentioned in the attachment then, by all means,
please do so and inform us accordingly.
At this juncture, we must emphasize that any delays, costs, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred
by us arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely your
responsibility pursuant but not limited to Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], 12.12 [Other Contractors
and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6.1 [Delay Damages].
Your response to this letter is requested within seven (7) days of receipt of this letter.
Should you require further clarification on any of the above, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours Faithfully
