Subject:
Deducted Doors from WMS Scope and Failure to Submit Substantiation for
Interim Payment Application (IPA)
Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your email dated 1 February 2018 by Mr.
Ahmad Adli, enclosed herewith, stating that you are not accepting the backcharges sent via letter
reference (3), we inform you that our position remains the same as per the content of our said letter.
After reviewing all of the relevant email correspondence concerning this matter, it is evidenced that you
were instructed multiple times to proceed with the fabrication but you failed to do so. Moreover, your
representative from M/S Assent on an email dated 12 October 2017 stated that you stopped the
fabrication.
In addition to the above, you submitted letter reference (5) stating your lack of manpower due to the
fact that your manpower was used in full capacity for the works. Nevertheless, we have assisted you by
deploying all required resources to ensure the completion of the works. In addition, even though the

procurement of the Waste Chute Materials is being dealt separately from this letter, however, it is
noted that you have failed to comply with your Contractual Obligations to procure the materials under
LoA reference (1) and as per your letter reference (4) requested us to proceed with the procurement of
most of your materials in order to avoid any delays, which we have taken the lead accordingly .
As a result of the above and after multiple requests sent to you to proceed with the works as stated
above, wherein you failed to adhere, we had no choice but to proceed with the fabrication of the door
frames and backcharge you accordingly.
Additionally, the comment made on your email dated 1 February 2018, that the doors have been
already delivered on site, is disregarded due to the fact that you have been requested several times to
submit signed delivery notes for the alleged delivery, but you failed to do so. It is noted that to date
there is no evidence of delivery for the doors listed on our letter reference (3). We hereby inform you
that we are ready to investigate whether the said doors have been delivered only upon receipt of the
signed delivery notes accordingly.
Moreover, further to the attached email correspondence, where you are depicting that it is a lengthy
procedure to acquire the necessary signatures from the site for the completed works, please note that
we do not accept the said statement and inform you that it has no contractual basis. It is noted that
such statements do not act in good faith towards your Contractual obligations and shall be avoided.
Consequently, you are instructed to take all necessary measures to provide all evidence, that the works
have been completed as per the Specifications and in accordance but not limited to Clause 15.2.1 (b)
[Inspection].
Furthermore, it is noted that Interim Payment Applications (IPAs) have not been submitted timeously as
per the conditions of the Subcontract Agreement. You are hereby notified that pursuant to Schedule 11
Clause 3.2 (a) [Monthly progress payment] “the Sub-Contractor shall submit its invoice on the 25th day
of each month with full supporting substantiation and details as required by the Contractor”.
Moreover, in view of the matter discussed regarding the IPA’s and in line with the Subcontract Terms
and Conditions comprised in the Tender Documents under the LoA (referenced 1 above), Appendix B,
Subcontract Conditions Clause 3 [Application for Interim Payments] states that all Applications shall be
submitted “together with supporting documents which shall include the relevant report on progress in
accordance with clause 12.27 (Progress Reports) (the Statement)”. It is observed that your submitted
IPAs are not in an acceptable manner and not in line with the Conditions of the Subcontract referred
herein. Consequently, you are instructed to comply with your contractual obligations and submit your
IPAs in a timely and an acceptable manner. Furthermore, Clause 3 states the following:
3.4 “The Subcontractor shall submit with each Statement, full supporting documentation so that the
Contractor can readily understand and verify the sums claimed”.
3.5 “The Subcontractor shall provide the Contractor with whatever supplemental information and
analysis it may reasonably require in order to fully understand and verify the sums due to the
Subcontractor”.
In view of the above, you are instructed as per Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to include in
your submissions all required documentation, to enable us to proceed with the evaluation of your
Applications accordingly.

Please be informed that all associated delays, costs, losses and/or expenses incurred by the Contractor
and/or other Contractors and/or Subcontractors and the Employer, arising as a result of the above, shall
be recovered from you in accordance with the Subcontract Clauses 10.3 [Contractor’s Claims], and
16.6.1 [Delay Damages] in addition to other relevant Contract Clauses.
Yours faithfully,
