Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0183
Delayed Access to Pier 1/3 Apron – Delaying Passenger Boarding Bridge Works
Dear Sirs,
Pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 (‘SAA8’), we hereby
submit this notice (‘E-Notice’) in consideration that the events and/or circumstances described in Annex
A may cause delay and disruption to the Works, and seek your swift resolution of the same.
Overview
The matters described in Annex A concern delays consequent upon the MTA Contractor (L&T) rejecting
our NOC No. N-532 requesting access to enable ThyssenKrupp access to the apron at East and North
sides to Pier 1/3 from GH46 to GH02, to complete their de-snagging of the Passenger Boarding Bridges
(PBB).
Potential Impact
Delay and disruption due to the events outlined in Annex A, will prevent us from completing the desnagging of the PBBs and impact upon our ability to obtain Taking Over Certificate TOC. This will
prevent us from obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC) which is critical in us achieving
completion of Milestone MS09B. Consequently, the more we are prevented from completing our Works
due to acts of prevention such as this, the more likely this will prevent us from achieving Substantial
Completion (i.e. Milestone MS09C).
Action Required
We therefore request your prompt action, guidance, decision or further instruction as applicable to
resolve the matters referenced herein in order to mitigate such delays and/or disruption to the Works.
Kindly ensure that such matters are actioned immediately upon receipt of this e-notice.
Nevertheless, we hereby reserve all our rights under the provisions of the Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event(s) described herein.
ANNEX A
Description of the Event
In order for us, in conjunction with ThyssenKrupp, to complete the de-snagging of the Passenger
Boarding Bridges (PBB), we require access to the apron at East and North sides to Pier 1/3 from GH46 to
GH02.
However, because of ongoing Jet Fuel Line Testing and Commissioning and Apron Painting Works being
undertaken by the MTA Contractor (L&T), the MTA Contractor is denying us access to the area and we
are prevented from obtaining an NOC from the Employer (ADAC) and yourselves, the Engineer (AECOM).
We have been informed by the Employer (ADAC) that Pier 2 North side (from GH5 to GH12) is available
to access; however it is not in line with the TOC sequence. We need to access P1 (GH46 to GH2)
urgently.
For your reference, we herewith attach a copy of the rejected NOC [N-532] for P1 (issued vide
Transmittal Advice No. MTC-CMA-LNT-0415-TML-01579, dated 25 November 2019). The comments
annotated upon this NOC, clearly show that L&T are currently denying us access and advises us to

resubmit the NOC in January 2020 (refer to Figure 1 below). Resultantly this will prevent us obtaining
TOC for Pier 1.
Figure 1 – L&T Comments Annotated upon the Rejected NOC
AECOM Transmittal Advice No. MTC-CMA-LNT-0415-TML-01579
This act of prevention on the part of the Employer’s Other Contractor will prevent us from completing
the de-snagging of the PBBs and impact upon our ability to obtain TOC. This will also prevent us from
obtaining the Building Completion Certificate (BCC) which is critical in us achieving completion of
Milestone MS09B. Consequently, the more we are prevented from completing our Works due to acts of
prevention such as this, the more likely this will prevent us from achieving Substantial Completion (i.e.
Milestone MS09C).
We therefore request your urgent action as applicable to resolve the matters referenced herein in order
to mitigate delay and/or disruption to the Works. This may take the form of urging the Employer to
insist that L&T approve our NOC urgently thereby allowing ThyssenKrupp access to the apron at East and
North sides to Pier 1/3 from GH46 to GH02 to enable ThyssenKrupp to completing their de-snagging
works.
Yours faithfully,
