Subject: Changes of Fire Rated Ceiling from a Hanging Ceiling System to a Fixed Wall-toWall
Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your Request for Variation (RFVO) referenced above and respond as follows;
Your RFVO makes reference to the response given to RFI-10736, and purports this to be the reasoning
for the variation request. Your RFVO states:
On 2 February 2016, TCAJV received response to RF/-10736 in which the Engineer hos noted that the
requirement of the fire resistance direction should come from the top and bottom side of the
suspended ceiling. With this new requirement, a fire rated ceiling fixed wall to wall with secondary
steel supports ore required instead of the hanging ceiling system".
We record the actual three queries raised in RFI-10736 along with the relevant responses;
Question 1 - "Please note that the Fire-Rated Ceiling System {GYB-04} cannot apply for sloped ceiling
areas (following slope in floor level/ramp) as there is no fire-rating test and certification available for
such ceiling (Refer to Attached Letter from Supplier {Gypsemna). Kindly advice how to proceed on those

locations.
Answer 1 - "An engineering judgement combined with test reports for a horizontal shaft wall assembly
noting requisite resilience from both sides (top and bottom) would suffice in this context.
Question 2 - "For some areas IFC dwgs. only mentioned the item as '2 hour fire-rated ceiling' but do
not specify type of ceiling system I material to be used. Kindly specify. (Refer attach. 01 & 02).
Answer 2- "Reference attached ASK-2800 (RFI-10736} (4 sheets) wherein the makeup of the two hour
rated corridor ceiling/stair soffit is explained. Reference attached ASK-2800 (RF/-10736} {4 sheets)
wherein the makeup of the one hour rated gypsum lid serving as stair soffit is explained.
Question 3 - "For ceilings marked as 'Gypsum Assembly', 'Gypsum Floor Assembly' and 'Gypsum Lid'
on IFC drgs, the fire-rating duration and direction of fire attack is not specified. Thus clarify the
difference of each item and provide the specification requirements accordingly. Also provide updated
IFC drgs. (Refer attach. 03 & 04} Answer 3 - "Reference attached ASK-2800 (RF/-10736 {4 sheets)
wherein the makeup of the gypsum
floor assembly (non-load bearing) is explained.
It is evident from the above that the Contractor appears to have misinterpreted the response to RFI10736 and has not demonstrated where any Variation has been introduced in these responses.
The Contractors statement that there is a new requirement in relation to the fire resistance direction
above egress passageways is incorrect. The IFC Drawings define the two hour rated ceiling
requirement in such areas as horizontal shaft wall assemblies supported from wall to wall. Reference
Drawing No. MTC-A-62-TB-L_-_-_-_-00-640(00).
Moreover, the Engineer records that the Contractor's obligation to comply with all fire code
requirements in areas including emergency exit/egress passageways is unchanged. In areas such as
these exit/egress passageways, the implementation of the suspended ceiling detail would not be
compliant and the use of the 2-hour shaft wall detail shown on IFC details is required to be fo llowed.
In light of the above, your request for Variation is denied.
Finally, it has come to our attention that these works are not proceeding at site, despite all technical
clarifications being addressed. Please be advised that any delays will be the Contractors responsibility.
Yours faithfully,
