Subject: Breach of Contract in Relation to Contractors Instructions
It is with utter bewilderment and dismay that we have to write to ANEL to clarify your contractual
obligations in relation
to your adherence to contractor's instructions.
Clause 11.3.1 [Instructions of the Contractor] states "The Contractor may issue to the Subcontractor (at
any time)
instructions and additional or modified Specification or Drawings which may be necessary for the
execution of the
Subcontract Works and the remedying of any defects, all in accordance with the Subcontract. The
Subcontractor shall
comply with the instructions given by the Contractor on any matter related to the Subcontract.
Whenever practicable,
instructions shall be given in writing."
The above clause is hardly nodus and quite clearly affirms your contractual obligations to carry out
works instructed by
the contractor. It is therefore clear to see why such nonsensical responses as we have received in the
above
correspondence and a deluge of similar responses to instructions are becoming somewhat tiresome and
aggravating.
The refusal of instructions as evidenced in the above referenced letters on the grounds that a letter has
not been
responded to is both ludicrous and a breach of contract. Furthermore the letters which you refer to
within the above
correspondence have been responded to over 3 months ago (Appendix 1).
As ANEL have been instructed under the relevant subcontract clauses and are refusing to proceed with
the works stated
within, we consider this matter to be a Suspension of Works under the subcontract. ANEL have no
contractual basis
with which to suspend works and are therefore in Breach of Contract.

For the record, all costs incurred by us with regards to your illegitimate suspension will be levied against
your account in
strict accordance with that of Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) of the agreed Subcontract Agreement
between us.
The same will be subject to 15% Overhead & Profit I Administration Charges.
Subject: Alleged Disrupted MV Cable Pulling Works
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your Letter Reference MTB-ANEL-TCA-L-1897 dated 91h July 2015 on the
subject matter and would respond as follows to the allegations made within.
We have carried out an internal review of your allegations I version of events with our on-site HSE Team
and would clarify for the record that we do not agree with your bias I inaccurate record of the same.
We confirm that preparation works associated with the MV Cabling Works commenced shortly after
6.00am on the morning of 9th July 2015. Our Site Safety Representative was contacted by your MV
Cabling
Subcontractor (RANYA) at 7.20am and promptly arrived at the required location at 7.30am. We were
requested to authorise the permit to work documentation and after checking the content of the same
and obtaining clarification as to the requirement of ADDC approved certification the document was
signed off. The entire procedure was carried out within a 30 minute timeframe.
We refute in its entirety your spurious allegation I claim that circa 2 Y2 hrs were lost due to downtime I
idle time in this regard. Your claim is completely baseless and without substantiation I credence in any
shape or form. We would respectively request that you concentrate your efforts on more pertinent
issues on the project as correspondences on such menial matters are not conclusive to that of a pro
active approach.
If you seek further clarification to any of the points raised within, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
