Dear Sir,
We refer to Contractor's letter referenced M006-GDB-COM-LTR-01498 wherein the Contractor
requested the Employer's written agreement for its proposed interpretation of the Contract, in
reference to the notification procedure in case of an Engineer's Instruction which the Contractor
believes constitute a Variation.

In reference to the subject matter, if the Contractor "believes that an instruction from the Engineer
constitutes a Variation or may create an Entitlement", within the provided mandatory time-frame of 14
days of the date of instruction, the Contractor should notify its entitlement in accordance with SubClause
3.3.3. "If the Contractor fails to notify the Engineer within 14 days of the date of instruction, then the
Contractor shall have no Entitlement regarding the instruction , while still being obliged to carry out,
implement or comply with the instruction".

Further, if the Contractor considers himself to be entitled to an extension of the Time for Completion,
the Contractor should notify its entitlement pursuant to Sub-Clause 8.4.2, again within a mandatory
time- frame of 14 days "after the Contractor knew or should have known of the facts or basis of such
entitlement". Furthermore, if the Contractor "fails to so notify the Engineer, the Time for Completion
shall not be extended, no adjustment to the Contract Price shall be made, and the Contractor shall have
no entitlement".

Should the Contractor also consider himself to entitlement under Sub-Clause 20.1, the Contractor shall
give such notice as soon as practicable and not later than 14 days after the Contractor become aware or
should have become aware of the event or circumstance giving rise to the Claim.
Again, pursuant to Sub-Clause 20.1.3, if the Contractor fails to so notify the Engineer, ''the Time for
Completion shall not be extended, the Contractor shall not be entitled to additional payment and the
Employer shall be discharged from all liability in connection with the claim".

Furthermore, it is important to note that compliance with the notice provisions is intended to be a
condition precedent to recovery of time and/or money, thus the Contractor should treat the Sub-Clause
20.1 in this way.

We conclude that, if the Contractor considers that a variation has the potential to become a claim, then
a "Claim Notice" is required to be submitted in accordance with Sub-Clause 20.1, irrespective of the fact
that such notice may be issued at the same time as a "Variation notice" and/or an "extension of Time
notice". We reiterate that after receiving an Engineer's Instruction that the Contractor considers to be a
variation, the Contractor has a reasonable period of time to assess the implications of said variation,
thus becoming aware of the contractual approach to be followed .
In view of the above, it is the Engineer's opinion that there is no alternative interpretation for the
entitlements' notifying mechanism, and there is no "unnecessary contractual correspondence" to be
dealt with, but mandatory notices to be submitted within the provided contractual time-frames.

Furthermore, the 'Subject/Title' of Contractor's letter shall state the 'Notice Number(s) under the
relevant Sub-Clause( s) of General Conditions of the Contract'.
We trust that the above fully clarifies all Contractors' queries within the subject referenced letter. Yours
faith ully,
Dear Sir,

Further to the Engineer’s Instruction of reference 4) issued pursuant to General Condition (“GC”) 13.1.1
of Volume 3 of the Contract, the Contractor encloses herewith full particulars in relation to the varied
scope, quantities and direct costs in accordance with its GC 13.2.2 obligations.

The Contractor’s detailed valuation of this variation is enclosed as attachment 1 to this letter and
summarized in table 1) below. Further supporting particulars in relation to the Contractor’s pricing
methodology can be found in attachments 2, 3, 4 and 5.

S/N

Additional Works

Amounts (QAR)

1)

Smoke Shaft Deletion

(421,639.99)

2)

Additional Jet Fan Requirements

3)

Additional Design Costs 146,416.91

Total

1,981,405.54

2,256,628.63

Table 1) Summary of Valuation

The deletion of smoke shafts is a result of MSI’s TVS design development. Along with the deletion of the
smoke shafts MSI introduced new jet fan niche requirements for the Al Sudan and Sport City
switchboxes and relocated one set of jet fans in the Bin Mahmoud switchbox. This design development
is clearly shown in the revision 1 of the respective ICD’s when compared to their revision 0, all enclosed
to this letter in attachment 4).

At the time of the Instruction reference 4) the construction of the smoke shaft at the Bin Mahmoud
switchbox had no option but to continue as the late design change would have directly impacted the
programme. Therefore no cost saving has been considered in relation to the aforementioned smoke
shaft. This smoke shaft forms an integral part of the emergency exit structure and its final design is
currently being developed.

The interim adjustment of the Contract Price is of the net amount of QAR 1,981,405.54. The Contractor
reserves its rights to recover any time related costs in connection to this Variation which shall be
addressed under a separate cover.

Yours faithfully,
