Subject:

Cloisall EOT (Additional Cost) Claim

Dear Sir,
During our meeting this morning we conveyed to you our view that your entitlement to any
compensation arising from Employer and/or Contractor Culpable Delay Events is to the additional Cost
incurred i.e. Cost that you would not have incurred ‘but for’ the occurrence of the Delay Events.
In this regard, we noted that your claim for compensation comprises all prolongation costs incurred by
you after the expiration of the original Time for Completion (TFC) / original Completion Date of 25
February 2016. Moreover, that the total time-related cost incurred by you from the original
Commencement Date (07 Aug 2014) to the Completion Date to which you seek an EOT (19 March 2018)
is approximately AED 109m (excluding overhead) of which you claim AED 82m as additional. This being
the case, then it would seem that the difference (AED 27m) is what you assert to be the time-related
cost that you would have incurred in executing and completing your Subcontract Works over the original
TFC (07 Aug 2014 to 25 Feb 2016 / 568 days) plus the BIM 500 Overrun Period (26 Feb 2016 to 11 May
2016 / 76 days) that you scheduled in the approved programme as being completed outside of the TFC.
We do not accept that AED 27m was sufficient as the cost of the time-related resources necessary to
execute and complete your Subcontract Works over the originally programmed period i.e. 07 Aug 2014
to 11 May 2016 / 644 days. Indeed, we have noted that the Preliminaries element of your Subcontract
Price is AED 114m and consider this to support our view that if there had been no changes to the
sequence and durations set down in the approved baseline programme, then your time-related costs
would have been significantly in excess of AED 27m and hence your additional Cost significantly less
than 82m.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing with you the additional Cost incurred therefore, we
require you to provide us with the full details of the Staff resources that you would have deployed in
executing and completing your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline
programme. Also, the Staff resources you considered necessary to execute and complete your
Subcontract Works in accordance with the Rev. 6.2 Programme. The details are to include resource

names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates. You should also categorise the resources into
“Core” (deployed across the entire works), “Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular
locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding).
We also require you to similarly categorise the Staff, into “Core” (deployed across the entire works),
“Location” (deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to
supervise specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding), that you have identified in June 2016 (AED 1,643,637),
September 2016 (AED 1,983,908) and June 2017 (AED 2,048,889).
Regarding the Staff Costs, we also noted in our meeting that we had observed from a brief review of the
payslips provided to us via your letter reference 11453 dated 17 December 2017, that accommodation
costs were not abated for Staff deployed for only part of the month; also, that lump sum additional
costs, such as flight tickets, are costed in the month in which they are paid and not across the entire
period over which the entitlement to the additional cost was accrued. This must be addressed in the
periods over which compensable delay is ascertained.
We look forward to our receipt of the information requested and assure you that it remains our
objective and intention to fairly determine any additional Cost to which you may be entitled arising from
Delay Events. In the interim, the continuation and progress of your Subcontract Works to meet the
requisite schedule will no doubt be viewed favourably and recognised as a demonstration of your
commitment to the Project.

Yours faithfully,
