Dear Sir,

Further to the receipt of the DRS of reference 1), the Contractor hereby rebuts the Engineer’s Assistant’s
rejection of the Contractor’s Tender Plan (TP) of reference 2). The Engineer’s Assistant has failed the
said Tender Plan by reference to letter reference 3), wherein it had asserted that only the “removal of
redundant cables and pipes that become redundant as a result of utility diversions instructed under SubClause 13.7.1 are recoverable under provisional sums”.

Letter reference 3) had further been cross referenced to letter reference 5), wherein the Engineer’s
Assistant had put forward a somewhat different assertion i.e. that pursuant to Volume 5, Sub-clause 7.5
the identification and / or removal of redundant utilities does not form part of the Utility Diversion
Provisional Sum works. The Contractor is therefore uncertain as to the Engineer’s Assistant’s position on
this matter and kindly requests further clarification as to whether the EA considers the identification and
removal of redundant utilities:

A.
Not to form part of the Utility Diversion Provisional Sum scope of works pursuant to Clause 7.5
of Volume 3 of the Contract, or;
B.
or;

To be an Unforeseeable Physical Condition pursuant to Clause 4.17 of Volume 3 of the Contract,

C.

Both of the above;

Whilst noting that the argumentation of letter reference 3) is wholly without merit and lacks any form of
contractual substantiation whatsoever, the Contractor reminds the Engineer’s Assistant that pursuant to
Volume 3, Sub-clause 4.17.3, it has indeed accounted for any risk related to unforeseeable physical
conditions (defined under Sub-clause 4.17.1) within the Accepted Contract Amount and not within the
Contract Price as alleged within letter reference 4) [Emphasis Added].

The Accepted Contract Amount is defined within Volume 3 as the “amount stated in the Letter of
Acceptance for the execution and completion of the work under the Contract and the Remedial Work.
The breakdown of this Accepted Contract Amount is contained in the Contractor’s proposal” which
consists of the sum of the Lump Sum and the Provisional Sum amounts of Schedule B to the Letter of
Conditional Acceptance.

To put things into perspective, the Engineer’s Assistant’s assertion of letter reference 3) is in direct
contradiction with Clause 4.17.3 of Volume 3 of the Contract and with the purpose of this letter, i.e. to
double down, once again, on the Contractor’s entitlement for payment against such Utility Diversion
works pursuant to the Provisional Sums protocol.

The Contractor accepts that it has accounted for any unforeseeable physical conditions which include
any “natural physical conditions and manmade and other physical obstructions and pollutants” within
the Accepted Contract Amount pursuant to Clause 4.17.3 of Volume 3 of the Contract and hereby urges
the Engineer’s Assistant to reconsider the actual meaning of this clause in the overall context of the
Contract.

The utilities of the Tender Plan of reference 2) should not be classified as unforeseeable physical
conditions since those were clearly depicted within the conflict identification drawing reference M006QRC-UTI-DWG-YWSTSAD-00-22001 of Volume 8.6.2 of the Contract. In the Contractor’s opinion
therefore, whether the said utilities were redundant or not is immaterial to the case. The definition of
the scope of works for Provisional Sums for Utility Diversions in Volume 5, Sub-Clause 7.5.1 states the
following:

The scope of works for Utility Diversions shall include the design, identification and diversion of all utility
service, as instructed by the Engineer. Provisional Sums have been included within the Pricing Document
for the execution of any part of these works and for the supply of Plant, Materials or services. (Emphasis
added)

The Contractor’s interpretation of the scope of works for Utility Diversions in relation to redundant
utilities which are not part of an actual diversion instructed under Volume 3, Sub-clause 13.7.1 is
reflected by the actual nature of the works. As a matter of logic, and until any given utility is identified,
fully located and its redundancy confirmed by the respective Stakeholder, the Contractor is obliged to
protect the health and safety of its personnel, the environment and the integrity of the utility network
and therefore has no option other than to proceed with the works required for the diversion of a live
utility. The level of effort is essentially the same provided that the bulk of the costs incurred by the
Contractor in relation to redundant utilities relate to the identification and manual setting-out.

In conclusion therefore, whereas any physical and / or manmade obstructions within the footprint of the
Site such as dubious dewatering requirements, soil conditions, any buried manmade structures such as
an irrigation well or even an archeological discovery would classify as unforeseeable physical conditions
and hence deemed to be inclusive within the Lump Sum element of the Accepted Contract Amount
(within the SoR excavation rates to be precise), any Utility Diversion works whether redundant or live
could only be accounted for within the Utility Diversion Provisional Sum element of the Accepted
Contract Amount pursuant to Clause 4.17.3 of Volume 3 of the Contract, Clause 7.5.1 of Volume 5 of the
Contract and the conflict identification drawings of Volume 8.6.2 of the Contract. The Contractor
therefore disagrees with the EA’s reason for failing the Tender Plan of reference 2) and kindly reiterates
its request to approve it.

Yours faithfully,
