Subject:Post SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26: E-Notice No. 0241
Contradictory Responses to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 – Requirement for Elevator Machine Enclosure –
Request for Engineer Instruction/Variation Order
Dear Sirs,
We refer to your letter ref: (1) following issuance of our E-Notice No. 0241 (ref: 2) in which you aver that
the comments issued in response to RFI/0401/17795 (ref: 3) are not in contradictory and allege,
amongst other things, that we have “executed the works without properly coordinated drawings being
in place which resulted in this issue …. being a safety hazard and a code non-compliance issue...” As such
it is your further position that there is no entitlement to an Engineer’s Instruction or Variation Order.
For the reasons comprehensively set out in our letter ref: (2) and further explained below we disagree
entirely. We therefore offer the following responses to each of your statements:
Unsealed Elevator Machine Openings
Your statement:
“… 1. Based on the Contract documents (the IFC) and as commented by ProFire (AHJ/HOE); 2-hour fire
rated enclosures are required between the shaft and the lift machine room.
2. Retain ability to maintain elevator equipment – i.e. there should be an access on the lift wall for
maintenance…”
Our response:
The IFC Drawings show 2hour fire rated enclosure, and machine openings. Gaps around the Elevator
Machines can clearly be seen on the A-02 and A-07 Drawings; without full closure (see Figure 1 below):
Figure 1 – Partial Extract of IFC Drawing No: MTC-A-07-TB-L_._-_._-00.267
Indicates the unsealed Elevator Machine openings
Non-Compliance
Your statement:
“…In this case, the Contractor has executed the works without properly coordinated drawings being in
place which resulted in this issue that was commented on by the Employer (AHJ/HOE) as being a safety
hazard and a code non-compliance issue...”
Our response:
It is the Employer’s Design Contractor’s responsibility to provide fully detailed, properly coordinated and
code compliant IFC Design Drawings. Irrespective, there is no Code non-compliance or safety hazard in
our suggestion of wire mesh application or as detailed in RFI/0401/17795 gypsum board application. We
therefore respectfully request you provide us the specific referenced Codes and related clauses in order
to support your allegations that this is a “non-compliance issue”.

Compartmentalization
Your statement:
“…The Contractor’s proposal initially was to provide a perforated steel panel, which did not work as the
fire compartmentalization will be compromised. Eventually a sealed gypsum board was provided,
however this was not coordinated with the elevator requirements. The RFU/0401/17795 clearly stated
“Lift machine openings/closure should have been coordinated by TCAJV with the lift contractor.” i.e.
providing the wall with a removable panel for maintenance was part of this co-ordination.”
Our response:
Our initial proposal of removable wire mesh is in line with Specification Section 142100, 2.2.K.1.f and
2.2.K.5; the provisions of which are reproduced below:
“f. Guard around machine (including full enclosure of rough openings through walls), ropes and rope
holes.”
“5. Prime paint and apply two (2) coats of rust inhibiting machinery enamel, Light Aubergine RAL 3004,
to metal work specified above as approved by the Engineer.”
Furthermore, we do not agree with your statement of “fire compartmentalization being compromised”.
The interpretation of the below given Code references is clear in so far as International Codes do not
consider Elevator Machine Rooms and Elevator shafts as different fire compartments when elevator
related openings are considered.
EN81-1 Safety rules for the construction and installation of lifts. Electric lift, states:
“5.2.1.1 Totally Enclosed Well
In sections of the building where the well is required to contribute against the spread of fire, the well
shall be totally enclosed by imperforate walls, floor and ceiling.
The only permissible openings are:
…
e) necessary openings for the functioning of the lift between the well and the machine or pulley rooms;”
NFPA 5000 Building Construction and Safety Code, sates:
“11.14.7.1 Elevator machine rooms associated with occupant evacuation elevators shall be separated
from all building areas, other than elevator hoistways, by minimum 2-hour fire resistance–rated
construction.”
In conclusion, our initial proposal of steel wire mesh is in line with the IFC Design and international
Codes and Standards and is maintenance friendly. The responses and additional requirements initiated
by you and the Employer through the response to RFI/0401/17795 Rev. 00 have created the
aforementioned problems, making us unable to proceed with the works. It was for this reason that we
raised E-Notice No. 0241 (ref: 2) requesting further direction from you, and for you to advise us which of
the different responses to our RFI we should follow. Unfortunately, your letter (ref: 1) fails to provide
any clear direction in order to satisfy the additional requirements put in place by you and the Employer.
We await your further instructions on the matter.
Meanwhile, we continue to maintain all our rights under the provision of Conditions of Contract SubClauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 [which have not been amended by SAA8 Sub-Clause 1.1] to an extension to
the Time for Completion and any associated costs arising from the event described in letter ref: (2).
Yours faithfully,
