Dear Sir,

As we have not received a proper cost estimate as per the original request the Contractor is now
required to consider the following revised scope of works and the attached conceptual presentation
whose purpose is to optimise station entrances/ function including the assessment as to whether a
shelter shall be provided or not and the necessity of waiting areas in specific locations. Final number of
vertical transportation elements shall be verified against the passenger demand figures by the
Contractor.
Provision of retail areas is specifically excluded and is not a requirement. Impact to as built works is not
foreseen or acceptable.
No impact on KITO dates is foreseen and Contractor's assessment must verify that there is no impact on
KITO dates.
The detailed geometry of the entrance is not part of this proposal and subject to the' detailed design of
the Contractor, taking into consideration of all constraints, especially from the Public Right of Way and
adjacent stakeholders.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of requirements which may be adjusted to achieve the above.
Furthermore the adjustments will be applied to all entrances that lead directly to underground stations
and subways:
The minimum length of run-off areas may be reduced to 4m for types other than A. Run-off areas shall
not overlap.
Where waiting areas are required (types BW and BWR), a minimum of 6 seats shall be provided.
To optimize (reduce) the height of the shelters for all types apart from A, the following shall be
assumed: lift speed 1m/s, car clear height 2.3m, headroom height 1.4m, min clearance between lift
enclosure and roof 0.2m.
For types D and E standalone lifts are acceptable ALYSJ Gold I.Int Underground
Type E does not have a shelter and the entrance door/Air curtain to the AC controlled area shall be
provided underground. Adequate signage on the status of the station to be provided at surface level.

For types C, D and E, vertical transportation in the non-peak direction may be provided by fixed stairs.

To assess if relaxation of RAM targeUEmployer's Requirement is required for stations which will have
only one (1) lift per entrance.
Contractor is required to establish multiple workshops , as required, including design and construction
staff to assess the scope of works, cost and time impact at each location. Engineer's Assistant is to be
involved in the process prior to Contractor's response to this 13.2.1 direction.
Due to the urgency of this request the Engineer's Assistant requires the Contractor to submit the
response within fourteen (14) days from receipt of this letter.
Should Contractor not be in a position to provide a quotation for the works within this time-frame,
Contractor is required nevertheless to provide an Order of Magnitude Cost estimate and statement on
time impact. It is imperative that the Contractor provides this information to allow the Employer to
progress with
ing the change, subject to the Contractor's response.

Yours faithfully,
