Subject Recovery of Overheads and Profit for Fit Out Works to Departure & Arrival, Pavilions, Icon Stores
& Arcade Areas
Dear Sir,
We write in response of correspondence (1) and of RFVO (2) in which you claim entitlement for
Preliminaries, Preambles, Overheads and Profit due to the omission of planned fit out works to the
Departure and Arrivals, Pavilions, Icon Stores and Arcade Areas.
In the RFVO, the Contractor claims that as result of Engineer's Instruction No. 561C omitting the
planned scope from the Contract, you are entitled to recover an amount of AED 12,286,628.25 based
on a tendered proposal by Cloisall.
The RFVO provides no clear contractual reference to the claimed entitlement and is consequently
rejected by the Engineer. Further, the omission of works (which in this case were not part of the
original scope of works) does not entitle the Contractor to claim for loss of profit and overheads as set
out in Preamble 12 of Schedule 6 of the /Bills of Quantities.
Furthermore, the Contractor in correspondence (1) has stated that the Employer is allegedly in breach
of Contract. The Contractor shall evidence the alleged damage it has incurred which entitles it to be
compensated. Furthermore, the Contractor is required to assess and determine its Subcontractor's
claim and provide substantiation on the cost it has incurred as a result of this alleged breach of
Contract.
Construction
Subject The Subcontractor's Misinterpretation in respect of the Provision of Cranage
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference (1} and (2) wherein the Subcontractor, on one hand,
acknowledges that it requested payment to the Contractor for cranage not used on the Project and, on
the other, requests the Contractor rents on its behalf two mobile cranes. In addition to this, in both
letters
the Subcontractor, whilst referring to Event No. 27 in its Extension of Time No.2 submission, reiterates
its
claim that all crane related expenses incurred on the Project are not within its scope of work. To be
clear:
Clause 2.1.3 of Appendix E [Scope of Subcontract Works for Precast Bridges Work Package] of the
Instructions to Tenderers states that the Contractor would provide tower cranage 'in accordance with
site
logistics plan as and when available and within load capacities. The crane time will be scheduled on a
day

to day basis and the Subcontractor will be required to plan their works to suit'. Further, Clause 4.2.55 of
Appendix E states that the Subcontractor would 'provide adequate mobile cranaqe for the Subcontract
Works for the offloading and horizontal movement of materials at times when the Main Contractor's
facilities are not available to the Subcontractor'.
If, as it now asserts, the Subcontractor relied on the tower cranes being provided when required rather
than when available, then the Subcontractor misinterpreted Clause 2.1.3, Clause 4.2.55 and related
provisions of the Letter of Award Documents. The usage noted in the Tower Crane Layout Drawings
coupled with the caveats set down in both Clause 2.1.3 and Clause 4.2.55, ought to have alerted the
Subcontractor to take a more prudent view and to allow in the Subcontract Price for 'all cranage,
horizontal and vertical transportation' as stated in Appendix A.1 [Scope of Subcontract Works], Section
2,
paragraph 2.1 9.
Moreover, and contrary to what it now claims, the Subcontractor did include in the Subcontract Price for
the on-Site cranage necessary for the installation of the precast units. This is apparent from the
Subcontractor's submitted Tender; in particular the Bill of Quantities, which in Bill No. 2 (Bill 2/A/3}
includes the sum of AED 8,200,000 against Item A [Cranes for production yard and site installation] .
Consistent with this is the note in both the 'Form of Tender' submitted by the Subcontractor on 07 April
Subject RE: Reminder of Delay in Issuing a Work Permit for the Scissor Lift Manufactured to Install GRC
Panels
Dear Sirs,
The Contractor confirms receipt of letter reference {1} wherein the Subcontractor argues that it has not
yet received a response on its method statement and therefore it has been unable to expedite its
progress
whilst using scissor lifts. The Contractor notes the following:
The first revision of the Subcontractor's method statement reference MS-1093-TEM-130 was
received on 07 November 2017. The Contractor rejected this document with a code-3 due to the
Subcontractor's proposed lifting operations not providing sufficient information in respect of the
Subcontractor's compliance with the Contractor's Health and Safety requirements. The first
revision ofthe method statement was returned to the Subcontractor on 15 November 2017.
The second revision of the Subcontractor's method statement was received by the Contractor on
21 November 2017 and forwarded to the Engineer on 29 November 2017. The second revision of
this document was rejected by the Engineer with a code-3 and returned to the Subcontractor on
11 December 2017. The Engineer provided numerous comments that required to be addressed by
the Subcontractor.
On 19 December 2017, the Subcontractor re-submitted its method statement; however this
submission was incomplete as numerous documents requested previously by the Engineer had
not been included (e .g. response/comment sheet, risk assessment, certificates, etc.). During the
subsequent weeks the Subcontractor drip-fed the Contractor with the missing documents, yet
some of these were still erroneous and/or incomplete (please refer to attached email
correspondence) .

The Subcontractor did not submit a revised method statement until 09 January 2018. This third
revision of the method statement was forwarded to the Engineer who issued a code-2 on 07
February 2018.
In summary, any alleged delays incurred by the Subcontractor in obtaining the work permit for the use
of
scissor lifts results from its inability to make a proper and complete method statement submission.
Furthermore, during this entire process the Contractor used its best efforts to assist the Subcontractor
whilst organising workshops attended by representatives of its HSE and technical departments. This
assistance I guidance aimed to prevent additional costs to the Subcontractor resulting from the Engineer
exercising its rights under Section 1.1.3.A.3.g of Specification 01330 and back-charging the
Subcontractor
for further submittals reviews due to its negligence to transmit conforming submittals. To be clear, this
is
over and above any responsibility of the Contractor who deems prudent to remind that, pursuant to
Clause 1.3 of the letter of Award, 'the Sub-Contractor is deemed to have full knowledge and
understanding of the Project requirements, Drawings and Specifications [ ... ]'.
Yours faithfully,
