
Subject:

Re: Variation Proposal- Reduction in Operator's Length

Dear Sir,
With reference to the above subject and in continuation to your letter referenced in (3) above, we
hereby refute the content of your letter and reiterate our position as per our letter referenced (2)

above, where we have rejected your variation proposal since the changes made to the length of the
operators were due to your proposal as per RFI referenced (1) above.
In addition to the above, your attention is drawn to the Clauses under the Specification Section 084126
which forms part of your Subcontract Agreement, Section 1.4 [Performance Requirements], A1, A2a,
A2b, A2c (General). Specifically A1 clearly states that you are “responsible for the design of connections
and fixings for all-glass assemblies and related elements, including interfaces and coordination with
work of adjoining trades, to satisfy aesthetic effects and performance requirements in accordance with
the Contract Documents”.
Furthermore, field survey is required by the Subcontractor to provide accurate shop drawings, submit
for approval, and then order material with the correct dimensions thus, negating the need for field
modification. Any field modifications necessary to achieve the desired effect and meet the performance
requirements shall be agreed prior to commencing of the Work and are the responsibility of the
Subcontractor.
Furthermore, according to your Subcontract obligations and as per Clause 12.1.1 [The Subcontractor’s
General Obligations] “[…] The parts of the Subcontract Works that the Subcontractor designs must,
when the Subcontract Works are completed:
(a) be fit for the purpose for which they are intended as specified in the Subcontract; and
(b) be free from any defects in design, workmanship, or materials”.
In view of the above you are instructed pursuant to Clause 11.3 [Instructions of the Contractor] to
comply with the above and proceed with the works without delay. Moreover, you are kindly requested
to comply with your Subcontract obligations and perform your duties with due diligence.

To conclude, any delays, costs, claims, losses and/or expenses and the like incurred by us and/or Other
Subcontractors arising as a result of your failure to complete the aforementioned activities will be solely
your responsibility as per the Subcontract Agreement Clauses including but not limited to 12.12.4 [Other
Contractors and Other Subcontractors] and 16.6 [Delay Damages].
This is for your information, records and further immediate action.
Yours faithfully,
