Subject:SAA8 Sub-Clause 2.26, E-Notice No. – E0001 – Delays to SMIS Maps – Confirmation of 2D/2.5D
Dear Sir,
We write in connection with the above mentioned subject and notify you pursuant to Sub-Clause 2.26 of
the Settlement Agreement and Amendment No. 8 that this event may cause delay to the Works and
therefore we seek your swift resolution to avoid any future disruption or delay pertaining to this matter.
Further to the above correspondence as well as email communications dated 23 April 2018 and 14 May
2018 as well as the Live Demonstration held in April 2018.
The email dated 23 April 2018 documents an agreement in a meeting where the Police and stakeholders
will review and approve the maps in SMIS (2.5 D and 2 D) as well as the alarm configurable items to be
approved.
In a follow up email dated 14 May 2018 we expressed our need to understand if we have to proceed
implementing on SMIS standard 2D or 2D isometric maps.

Our last correspondence reference (1) we once again requested the Employer to confirm with which
option we should proceed. However, to date we have not received any response, guidance, decision or
instruction regarding this issue.
You are hereby informed that as per programme the SMIS ISAT test is scheduled for 21 October 2018,
however this cannot take place as the MAPS, an integral part of the test, has not yet been developed
due to the afore mentioned delay in response to our request to either proceed with option 2D or 2.5D.
Pursuant to Conditions of Contract Clause 9.10.3, we [again] hereby request that the Engineer issue us
with the requested information together with an accompanying Engineer’s Instruction; failing which the
Works are likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
As noted, the resultant delay and/or disruption is likely to impact upon engineering and procurement,
BIM modelling and construction, due to our inability to proceed absent receipt of the requisite
Instruction.
Please note that the amount of delay and/or disruption cannot be particularised as the time (not least
due to the fact that the Contractor does not know when the Engineer will issue the requested
information) but the Contractor will keep the Engineer informed or any delay and/or disruption should
these materialise.
We reserve our rights under the Contract to an extension to the Time for Completion and additional
Costs arising from the above described event.

Your further guidance, decision and/or instruction is required by no later than 08 November 2018 at the
very latest; failing which the Works are likely to be delayed and/or disrupted.
We reserve our rights under the Contract pursuant to Sub-Clause 27.1 (Contractor’s Claims) to an
extension to the Time for Completion and additional Costs arising from the above described event.
Yours faithfully,
