
Subject:Clause 27.1.1: Notice of Claim – Delay Notice No. 0105 [post-SAA8]
Drawing Backgrounds – As-Built Conditions Not Matching Shop Drawings
Dear Sir
We write with reference to our letter ref: (1).
By way of reminder, our letter ref: (1) was issued in direct response to various allegations made by you
in relation to our As-Built and Shop Drawing submittals, principally the purported poor quality of our
submission and those of our subcontractors, and the unreasonable rejection by you of the same.
However, it has become increasingly apparent that you are continuing to unreasonably reject our AsBuilt and Shop Drawing submittals due to issues relating to the ‘backgrounds’, where the background
information and arrangements detailed on our As-Built Drawings and Shop Drawings do not reflect
[match] the actual as-built condition constructed on the site. Indeed, the various ‘As-Built Package
Status’ reports issued by you to date, contain a series of statements including inter alia the following:
‘As built condition does not match approved Shop Drawing’
‘Drawings not coordinated in the SDS and there is no coordination in the As-Builds …’
‘..As Built drawings are changed from approved shop drawings (layout …) … as Built drawings will not be
reviewed … until [this] information is provided.’
‘As-built drawing submitted when verified at site are different …’
As previously advised in our letter ref: (1), the issue of As-Built and Shop Drawings not matching the
actual as-built conditions on site is in the majority directly related to the introduction by you and the
Employer of the unorthodox and extra-contractual Briefing Pack (‘BP’) design development process. If

you recall, you insisted on instructing the resultant myriad changes to the Works developed from 100+
BPs back to us by way of 11,600+ signed-off ‘Document Record Sheets’ [i.e. sketches]; albeit issued as
‘IFC’ in lieu of traditional fully completed and properly coordinated IFC Drawings.
Given this, combined with the fact that the 11,600+ sketches were issued by you via circa 80 separate
Engineer’s Instructions in a late, ad-hoc and piecemeal manner over a period of some three and a half
years, and the fact we were compelled to develop our Shop Drawings based on sketches [as ordered by
you] absent IFC Drawings, it is not surprising that ‘as built conditions do not match Shop Drawings’.
However, it appears that our As-Built and Shop Drawing submittals are being unreasonably rejected due
to purported issues relating to the ‘backgrounds’, for which we are clearly not culpable nor liable – this
remains your responsibility and that of the Employer and / or Employer’s Design Consultant.
In the meantime, this ‘issue’ continues to have a major impact on our ability to obtain ADDC approval
and similarly is impacting the completion of the As-Built LOD 500 BIM models; which have a direct
impact on achievement of Milestone MS09B and will invariably knock on to Milestone MS09C. In which
respect, any delays consequent upon the rejection of our As-Built and Shop Drawing submittals due to
the drawing backgrounds e.g. as built conditions not matching Shop Drawings [as opposed to any
potential on-going or remaining delays attributed to the BP design development process], cannot
possibly be construed as forming part of the ‘Included Circumstances’ per Clause 1.7.4 of SAA8.
Accordingly, we hereby notify you pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clauses 16.5.2 and 27.1.1 that
the events and circumstances detailed above constitute acts of prevention and/or breaches of Contract
on the part of the Employer’s Personnel and therefore give rise of our right to claim:
(i)
An extension to the Time for Completion pursuant to Sub-Clause 16.5.1(c); and
(ii)
An adjustment to the Contract Price in accordance with Clause 21.2 pursuant to Clause 9.10, or,
in the alternative, damages for breach of contract.
Interim and/or final details of the Time Impacts and adjustments to the Contract Price relating to this
event will be provided in due course pursuant to Conditions of Contract Sub-Clause 27.1.5(a), (b) and (c).
Yours faithfully,
