Subject Processor Swing Arm Test- Request for Information RFI/0401/15440
Cross Ref. (1) MTB/TCA/ AECOM/L/012640 dated 19 March 2018
Dear Sir,
We refer to your correspondence referenced as (1) above regarding Processor Swing Arm Test- Request
for Information RFI/0401/15440.
The Contractor stated that the response to RFI/0401/15440 provided by the design team did not fully
address the question raised. The response to the RFI refers the Contractor back to a response given for
RFI/0401/4616. Both RFI's raised a question regarding the testing of the Schaeffler Spherical bearings as
required by the project specification. RFI/0401/4616 raised the query regarding the bearings specified
under the main processor arches and RFI/0401/15440 raised a similar question regarding the Processor
Arrivals Fac;ade.
In RFI/0401/15440 the Contractor stated that the bearing cannot be tested as the test load is too great
for the equipment that the various testing laboratories have available. An identical question was raised
in RFI/0401/4616. This response was accepted by the Contractor without the ne·ed for additional
clarification as is now requested.
In fact, the bearing test information requested by the design team as part of the response to
RFI/0401/4616 was provided to the design team under reference MTB/TCA/AECOM/L/011910, dated
23rd November 2017. This information was accepted by the design team as sufficient to address the
comments raised in RFI/0401/4616.
It is therefore unclear how the same response to two identical questions can in one instance be
accepted by the Contractor and in another instance not.

The Contractor's proposal in RFI/0401/15440 to request for "reduced design loads" presents more delay
to the project as it is not certain the design loads are significantly less than the current test loads nor is it
certain the laboratories will have the equipment to test for these "reduced loads". The Contractor
should provide evidence from the manufacturer that the following have been carried out
for the bearing types listed in RFI/0401/15440:
• Prototype tests, to verify the adequacy of the design. These tests are generally ca rried out by the
manufacturer during the development of the bearing.
• Production tests, to ensure the use of correct materials and procedures in manufacture.
This is the same type of information the Contractor has already supplied in response to RFI/0401/4616.
In light of the above we now consider this matter closed
Subject:Mosart’s EOT (Additional Cost) Claim
Dear Sir/Madam,
Further to your various submissions of cost that you assert to be time-related and arising solely from the
prolongation of the time over which the Subcontract Works are executed and to our related meeting on
14th May 2018, we note the following.
We reiterate that you are required to resubmit your Prolongation Costs in the form of a Claim in
compliance with all of your related obligations under the Subcontract, including Clauses 16.5 [Extension
of Subcontract Time for Completion], 27.1 [Subcontractor’s Claims] and 27.2 [Time Impact Analysis] of
the General Conditions.
In order to assist us in establishing and agreeing any additional Cost incurred, we require you to provide
with your claim the full details of the Staff that you would have deployed in executing and completing
your Subcontract Works in accordance with the approved baseline programme. Also, the Staff you
considered necessary to execute and complete your Subcontract Works in accordance with the Rev. 6.2
Programme. The details are to include resource names, designation, deployment period(s) and rates.
You should also categorise the resources into “Core” (deployed across the entire works), “Location”
(deployed to supervise the works in particular locations e.g. Piers) and “Task” (deployed to supervise
specific tasks e.g. Scaffolding).
Additionally, our initial review of your submitted costs is that some of the amounts claimed are not
related to prolongation. In this regard, our main observations are as follows:
1.
Flights and entertainment expenses are included in office consumables which we do not
consider to have been incurred as a consequence of prolongation;
2.
Significant amounts are claimed for the wages of production staff and direct labour and the
related labour camp and transportation, all of which, we consider as task (not time) related;
3.
Significant amounts are claimed for factory rent and depreciation of factory assets, which we
consider part of the subcontractor’s Overhead cost;

4.
There is no evidence of any liability for a cost incurred for the financing charges / extended
retention which it seems was based on a theoretical calculation and a hypothetical interest rate. You
must evidence your general or project specific financial arrangements, and how any additional interest /
financing costs have been incurred as a consequence of the prolongation for any such costs to be
considered.
In regards to the cost of Overheads (which accounts for an excessive and disproportionate amount of
your submitted cost) we note the following:
i.
Emden Formula does not evidence actual cost incurred; to claim "unabsorbed" Overheads you
must evidence that resources were prevented from earning a contribution to Overheads from specific
lost opportunities;
ii.
Offsite facilities (factory & storage) are not ordinarily claimable as core time-related and instead
are either activity related e.g. production of materials for incorporation into the Subcontract Works
and/or regarded as being included in the corporate overhead (utilised for all projects / not project
specific);
iii.
Overhead recovered via the valuation of the works and variations executed in the prolongation
period must be credited.
We look forward to our receipt of the information requested and assure you that it remains our
objective and intention to fairly determine any additional Cost to which you may be entitled arising from
the Delay Events upon which your claim for an extension of the Subcontract Time for Completion and
compensable delay is based. In the interim, the continuation and progress of your Subcontract Works to
meet the requisite schedule will no doubt be viewed favourably and recognised as a demonstration of
your continued commitment to the Project.
Yours faithfully,
