Subject: Delay in Procurement and Installation of Glass Wall Lining and Glass Screen
Dear Sir,
We write with reference to your letters ref {1), ref {2) & ref {3) in which you advise of purported
delays to the planned deliveries and subsequent construction activities related to internal glass
works.
The content of your letter is inaccurate and paints a misleading picture of events at site related to the

subject works.
We do not agree or accept any alleged failure in procurement. The glass in question for more than
twelve months relates to the replacement of previously installed glass. In addition, glass has been
affected by MEP modifications and other works either varied or instructed by you. Due to the nature
and speciality of the individual types of glass to be replaced, it is not possible to plan or manage the
procurement in an efficient manner.
The internal glazing package has already passed to the snagging stage; however, you are not
accepting the glass replacements and varied works as snagging items, which we feel is unreasonable.
As of week-ending 20 June 2019, we have achieved approximately 95% installation of internal glass.
The remaining 5% is targeted to be installed by the end of September 2019. This forecast however,
does not and cannot consider any future breakages or changes instructed at site.
From the outset, we have applied and continue to apply mitigation measures to this package. Such
measures include the deployment of our own glass suppliers, controlling all work orders and the
internal glazing procurement system. In cooperation with AGC, our external consultants who we
engaged 2.5 years ago and remain with us to date, we are managing the internal glazing installation
programme.
We conclude by reiterating that we remain fully committed to ADAC, the Project and to completing
our obligations within the shortest possible time, without compromising on safety and quality, but
will not be held responsible for such factors as those outlined above for which we are not culpable.
Yours faithfully,
