Dear sir
We refer to your ‘Consolidated Extension of Time, Prolongation Cost & Disruption Cost Submission’
made via letter reference CLO/0401/MTB-CEILING/CONT/11377/17 dated 08 October 2017 and in
particular to your claim for ‘Wall Cladding Disruption Cost’ in the amount of AED 19,832,798.
Basis of Claim
You assert that the progress of your Wall Cladding works was delayed and disrupted by the occurrence
of certain events for which we are contractually liable to reimburse to you the additional Cost that you
have incurred as a consequence. In this regard you have identified the following as the events causing
disruption to your Wall Cladding works:
1.
Site Measurements Panels
2.
Design Change - Piers and Wrapper Walls GRG Skirting
3.
Design Change- Piers and Wrapper Wall GRG Collar around Façade Mullions
4.
Misalignment of Ceiling and Wall joints due to the structural deviations
5.
Design Change- Piers Movement Joint Panels MPC-11C (wall)
6.
Engineering Delays- Piers Gate houses Entrance Panels MPC-11C (wall)
7.
Lack of MEP Clearance – Piers Gate Houses’ Entrance wall cladding
8.
Lack of Facade clearance & uncontrolled site conditions to start wall cladding in Piers and
Wrappers
9.
Wall cladding’s Scaffolding disruptions
10.
Wall cladding delays due to Out-of-sequence works / Deviation of the installation plan
11.
Instruction to hold all the wall cladding works on site due to fatality incidents
You have also provided a brief narrative of each event in your Submission (pages 13,811 to 13,839).
There is however nothing much of substance in the narrative; for example, you allege for Event 1 (Site
Measurements Panels) that “massive delay” was caused to the completion of the fabrication and
installation of “huge quantities” of MPC-11B and MPC-11C panels and similarly in Event 4 (Misalignment
of Ceiling and Wall joints) that “big quantities” of the fabricated/delivered MPC-11B panels were refabricated Such parlance is patently worthless in establishing the facts and the disruption (if any) that
might reasonably be attributed to each of these events. Suffice to say that it is for you to establish and
convey the facts pertaining to each event, including quantities and time(s) where relevant. Moreover,
where the design and/or method of installation has been changed e.g. Event 2 (GRG Skirting), Event 3
(GRG Collar), Event 5 (Movement Joint Panels) and Event 9 (Scaffolding - stand alone in lieu of
cantilevered from Birdcage for Wall Cladding) then all directly related costs (such as the labour,
equipment and other resources utilised in the execution of the changed work) should be included in the
valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption.
Having identified the events upon which your disruption claim is based, it is for you to then identify the
disruption suffered for each event. It is not sufficient to merely list events and then conclude and
proceed on the basis that your entire Wall Cladding works suffered disruption as that was not the case.

Indeed we will not entertain any such ‘global claim’. A claim against each event is the correct approach
and also necessary to precisely establish its impact. Furthermore, your failure to notify and establish the
impact of each event may have prejudiced any related entitlement we might otherwise have had to
make a ‘back-to-back’ claim against the Employer or to levy a back-charge against a subcontractor. If
such relief (or any part) is lost due to your failure to provide notice in accordance with the Subcontract,
then your own related entitlement would clearly also be negated. If, despite the foregoing, you
maintain that your Wall Cladding works have been disrupted, then you must submit an appropriately
detailed, substantiated and independent claim for each alleged disruption event.
Method of Valuation
Notwithstanding our rejection of your global disruption claim, we have reviewed the submitted
valuation and highlight the following as aspects requiring your further attention and consideration in
any subsequent submission.
The submitted valuation claim comprises the following elements:
WCD 1
This element comprises the cost of Labour (direct & subcontract) that you say was deployed in
completing 44,554m2 of Wall Cladding over the period February 2016 to October 2017 (AED 8.7m) from
which you have deducted what you say was your estimated / budgeted cost based on an unsupported
production allowance of 4.63 m2 per man per Work Day (1.3m). Furthermore you say that this loss of
production necessitated more Supervision and Foreman time (AED 0.9m) and also additional Scaffold
time (4.7m). You have then claimed AED 0.3m for other (unidentified) cost by applying 2% uplift to the
amount(s) claimed.
Observations
•
Actual production was seemingly less than 15% of the allowance. Allowance to be corroborated
by an ‘as planned & resourced schedule’ and a ‘measured mile’ analysis using contemporary records to
establish the actual production achieved in areas and at times free of disruption.
•
Full breakdown of all Wall Cladding related BQ unit rates to be provided.
•
Contemporary records of resources deployed must be capable of being objectively verified.
Resources to be identified by name, designation and role in the Wall Cladding works.
•
Actual Cost (not rates) to be used. Employment contracts, salary slips, evidence of payment and
the like to be provided.
•
Cost to be abated for Subcontractor risk events e.g. errors in tender, quality and quantity of
resources, supervision, availability of materials and equipment, weather, defective work etc.
•
Evidence to be provided of measures taken to mitigate the effects of each disrupting event.
•
Duplication of resources (in particular Supervision, Foreman and Scaffold) to be checked against
valuations submitted for variations and other claims.
WCD 2
This element comprises the cost of additional Architect / Draftsman and Design Manager Days required
to make changes to documents relating to the Events 2, 3, 5 and 6 i.e. Events where the design and/or
method of installation has been changed. This being the case, then all directly related costs should be
included in the valuation of the relevant variation and not as part of a claim for disruption. There may be
some duplication here with the valuations submitted by you for variations and other claims.
WCD 3
For this (second) Scaffold element you claim for the erection and dismantling of 77,535m2 of Scaffold
and rental of the same for a period of 4 weeks. We do not (currently) see how this forms part of a claim
for disruption and in any event consider there may be some duplication here with the valuations
submitted by you for variations and other claims.

We trust that our position regarding disruption claims is clear and that if you intend to pursue any such
claim, then you will structure and submit the same accordingly.
Yours faithfully,
