Subject: Impact of UAE Government edicts in respect of COVID-19 (Coronavirus)
Dear Sirs,
We refer to our letter to the Employer ref: (1} seeking immediate guidance on the action to be taken
in the Projects' best interest in light of the rapidly evolving situation associated with the Coronavirus
(COVID-19} pandemic. We also refer to numerous bulletins, circulars and other announcements of
the UAE Government that continue to be issued on the matter; and write to advise of the following.
With the UAE government imposing severe restrictions in particular on flights, travel and social
interaction, we feel it incumbent upon us to notify you as to how our suppliers and subcontractors
and this Project is being materially affected. Therefore the information attached in Annex A provides
you with an initial interim assessment of the feedback we have so far been able to obtain from some
of our subcontractors, and how this is impacting the Works.
Additionally, we also bring your attention to the recent imposition of a major restriction to the Works
notified to us on 19 March 2020, where, due to travel restrictions imposed by the UAE Government,
the South Airside (Apron/PQC area} from Gatehouse GH45 to GH29 is to be utilized as a parking
space for aircraft. Therefore, all Works are effectively suspended to the PQC/ Apron area, and we and
our subcontractors have been instructed to clear the area of any and all equipment and materials.1
We also advise that according to a bulletin by Emirates News Agency (WAM} dated 23 March 2020,
the UAE government has called upon the public to stay at home unless it is absolutely necessary.2 It
remains to be seen how this will impact the Project. We have written separately on this, see ref: (2}.
The evolving situation is having a detrimental impact and is severely delaying and disrupting the
Works. This will critically delay the Time for Completion but will also result in us incurring additional
expenditure that we will seek to recover under the Contract and/or via UAE law.
We find ourselves in an unprecedented situation, the circumstances of which are entirely outside our
control and completely fluid; the situation is unknown and changes rapidly and therefore it is difficult
to predict when the impact of the Coronavirus (COVID-19} pandemic will lessen and eventually cease.
We will nevertheless, continue to monitor the situation and keep you informed as matters develop.
Yours faithfully,
