Dear Sir,

The Engineer’s Assistant is hereby notified of the ongoing dispute between the Contractor and the BACS
Subcontractor in respect of the armored instrumentation cable requirements as evidenced in
attachment 1) enclosed to this letter. In escalating the matter to the Employer, the Contractor
summarizes hereunder all aspects in relation to the subject and the aforementioned dispute between
the Contractor and the Subcontractor for the sole purpose of obtaining the necessary directions on how
to proceed with the works.

Table 1) Correspondence with BACS Subcontractor Re. Armored Cable Requirement of attachment 1)
The Engineer’s Assistant should note that the requests for additional payment stem from the simple fact
that the same had allegedly not been accounted for during the Framework Agreement tender process
undertaken between the Employer and the Subcontractor. Said assertion may or may not be true but in
any event should not become the basis of an event or circumstance of impeding nature to the execution
of the works.

The Contractor has not up-lined the Subcontractor’s request for additional payment to the Employer
since the provision of armored instrumentation cables does not classify as a change to the works. This is
evidenced in attachment 2) to this letter whereby the relevant QCS 2014 specifications, Section 21 –
Part 06 [Cables and Small Wiring] state: “Instrumentation Cables – Digital Signals: (f) galvanized steel
wire armor”.

Moreover, the Contractor has become aware that the other Metro Lines currently proceed with their
respective BACS works with the supply and installation of non-armored cables. Again this may or may
not be true but surely consists of a deviation from the Employer’s Requirements, one which the

Contractor would require an official waiver and / or relaxation by the Employer prior to incorporating
into its works.

In conclusion therefore, the Contractor kindly requests from the Engineer’s Assistant clear direction as
to whether armored BACS instrumentation cables should be provided as part of its scope of works,
whether in whole or in part. Should the Engineer’s Assistant or the Employer express the view that
armored cables will not be required for the whole or part of the works the same should be issued by
way of an official waiver or via the official Request for Change (RFC) process of amending the Employer’s
Requirements.

Yours faithfully,
