Subject Room Completion Stage-1, Zutec Update
Dear Sir,
We write further to the Engineer's letter referenced (1) above with regards to updating the backlog of

the Room Completion in Zutec in order to be aligned with the physical room completion update
provided by the Contractor's construction team.
On 28 March 2018, during the Weekly Meeting as referenced in {2), item 7 has recorded "TCAJV
mentioned that Zutec update will be 1st week of April".
The Contractor has failed to meet the above mentioned committed date as well as numerous other
committed dates provided by the Contractor in various meetings. The most recent given on 11 April
2018, during the weekly meeting referenced (3), Item 6, has recorded "Zutec update is missed and
TCAJV
is forecasting end of April to complete this task, CMA/ADAC says this not acceptable and TCAJV to exert
effort to close this task" .
The Engineer hereby records that as of 27 April 2018, as per the weekly update referenced (4), the
Contractor has failed to complete the backlog update of Zutec, as demonstrated in the table below
whereby the completed rooms according to Zutec is 291 vs. 2,134 claimed by the TCAJV. The Engineer
notifies the Contractor that the delay in updating the backlog in Zutec will prevent the
ongoing efforts to mitigate delays by the Contractor.
The Contractor shall be fully responsible for any delays that may occur as a result of the above.
Finally, the Contractor is requested to submit the action plan for Zutec backlog update not later than 3
days from the receipt of this letter.
Subject:

Re: CTBA Workers & Activities

Dear Sir,
We are in receipt of your letter reference (1) and we hereby inform of our disagreement with regards to
your statement that the installation works for Hardware and bracketing done by M/S CTBA cannot be
certified by you, due to the fact that the team of M/S CTBA has not been trained by you.
For ease of reference we remind you of our numerous notifications and correspondences regarding your
lack of manpower, notices to correct and delay notices wherein to date you have failed to comply and
rectify respectively. We put on record that you have not rectified the aforementioned or complied with
our Instructions, but you have also further reduced your manpower on site which is affecting the
progress of the works (see attached Subcontractor’s Daily Manpower & Activity Report).
In view of the above, we have proceeded with deploying all necessary resources i.e. M/S CTBA which
will be backcharged to you, to avoid any further delays to the project. We also put on record that
currently the only progress on site is by M/S CTBA, which is following our instructions and progressing
with the works on site accordingly.
Additionally, we also put on record that the quality of your work by using unskilled labour is
unacceptable. Furthermore, please note that your installers have not been certified as required by the
Contract. Your attention is drawn to the Contract Specification Section 087100 Paragraph 1.5 [Quality
Assurance] which states the following:

“A. Installer Qualifications: Supplier of products and an employer of workers trained and approved by
product manufacturers and an Architectural Hardware Consultant […]”; and
“B. Architectural Hardware Consultant Qualifications: A person who is experienced in providing
consulting services for door hardware installations that are comparable in material, design, and extent
to that specified for this Project and who is currently certified by DHI […]”.
Hence it is with great surprise and disappointment to find that you have chosen to enter into
correspondence on this matter. To be more specific your assertions that M/S CTBA’s personnel has not
been trained by you and your allegations that are not competent to perform the works, while your
installers have not been certified as required by the Contract is noted.
In light of the foregoing, you are requested to withdraw your letter referenced (1) above. In the
meantime you are instructed to increase your manpower, provide materials Fabrication Report, Delivery
schedule immediately as previously requested. We are concerned with the delivery status of materials
to the site hence we need to see a substantial delivery and improvements going forward and
coordination of your works accordingly, to ensure the timely completion of the works.
This is for your information and further action.
Yours faithfully,
