Subject: Inadequate Progress of Mechanical Works within Gatehouses - Back of House & Front of House
Dear Sir,
Further to our letter reference MTB/TCA/PCEJV/L/004041 dated 2ih October 2016 we are once
compelled to
place on record that despite the Project being at a critical stage, we remain increasingly concerned with
regards to
the inadequate rate of progress of your Mechanical Works (Contracted Scope) within the
aforementioned areas.
Our concerns are specifically aimed at the installation of the following equipment and that of the related
activities
(ducts, firefighting pipes, supply/return chilled water pipes, etc.) of which the photographic evidence
(58nr)
attached clearly demonstrates.
A. Inadequate Rate of Progress to Mechanical Work in Pl & P2 GHs Plant rooms
Basement & Level 1.0 (see attached photos)

Ingress of AHU unit in Level Ll.O, and related ducts and chilled water pipe works
Ingress of Pre-action unit in Basement (in Level Ll.O for Type F GHs) and related Firefighting pipe works
Ingress of BCU unit and related chilled water pipe works
B. Delay in Material Delivery
Pre-action Units not yet delivered to site (9 nos.)
C. Others
Lack of progress in the Cutting of PCA Ducts in GHs Mechanical Room (Basement)
Lack of progress in Puddle Flange Installation for the Lifting Stations
Lack of progress in the insta llation of Firehouse Real Cabinet (FHC) in Gate Houses' Entrance (No sample
approved, no approved mock-up, no material delivered to site)
Accordingly you are instructed to provide an Action Plan (with Completion Dates) to mitigate the delays
in strict
accordance with that of Clause 16.4.1, bearing in mind that the continuing delay in the completion of
abovementioned mechanical equipment and Works. Your inadequate rate of progress has and continues
to have
a detrimental impact to the Pre-commissioning & Final commissioning activities, and t he subsequent
delay to the
succeeding Civi l work activiti es (final paint, Snagging and De-snagging, etc.). As previously stated within
a plethora of correspondences, you have a clear contractual obligation to mitigate
delays of which we find you completely culpable, in this instance we would make reference to that of
Clause 16.4
(Recovery of Delays) of your Subcontract Agreement. For ease of reference;
Clause 16.4.1 - Recovery of Delays
If, at any time:
(a) The Contractor considers (acting reasonably) that actual progress is too slow to complete within the
Subcontract Time for Completion;
(b) Progress has fallen {or will fall) behind the Subcontract Programme; and/or
(c) The Subcontract Programme or Subcontract Works have adversely impacted the Contractors
Programme or other parts of the Contract Works,
Then the Contractor may instruct the Subcontractor to submit under Clause 16.3 (Subcontract
Programme), a
revised recovery programme (complying with all the requirements of a Subcontract Programme set out
in Clause
16.3 (Subcontract Programme) and supporting report describing the revised methods which the
Subcontractor
proposes to adopt in order to expedite progress and complete within the Subcontract Time for
Completion. These
revised methods may include increases in the working hours and/or in the numbers of Subcontractor's
Personnel
and/or goods and/or measures to expedite progress. The Subcontractor shall submit such revised
Subcontract

Programme and supporting report within seven (7} Days of the Contractor's instruction. The Contractor
may,
acting reasonably, if it considers the Subcontractor's proposals to be insufficient or inappropriate,
instruct the
Subcontractor to make such amendments and modifications to the revised Subcontract Programme and
supporting
report as it considers reasonably necessary and the Subcontractor shall make and comply with any such
amendments and/or modifications.'
The recovery programme shall clearly detail as a minimum how you intend to complete the remaining
Gate houses
in (P1 & P2), in order to mitigate further delays to the Contract Finishing Programme.
All delays and cost incurred will be for your account with recovery of the same in strict accordance with
that of
Clause 10.3 (Contractors Claims) of the agreed Subcontract Agreement between us.
We trust you find the aforementioned self-explanatory and will carry out the necessary as a matter of
urgency. If
you seek further clarification as to the content of this letter, please do not hesitate to contact the
undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
